#### 1.5.   DETERMINATIONS OF THE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE (UDC )

##### 1.5.1.   ZONING DETERMINATIONS AND ZONING CERTIFICATIONS BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR

   A.   General

   The Zoning Administrator renders a final decision and determination in accordance with this section when an determination of the substantive provisions of the UDC or the application of substantive zoning provisions in the zoning certification of a site plan , tentative plat , or final plat is requested.

   B.   Requesting a Zoning Determination or Certification

      1.   Requests for a written determination or certification must be made in writing to the Zoning Administrator. The request must include: the name and address of the person requesting a certification or determination; the ordinance, code or part therefore, or substantive policy statement that requires determination or clarification; the requesting party ’s proposed determination or clarification; and whether the issue(s) are currently being considered by the City in connection with a pending application or request for approval and the identity of the proposed project or development ; and,

      2.   Any person , including those affected by the proposed development may request a written determination or certification. For the purposes of this section, a person affected by the proposed development is the applicant, owners, or residents of property within 400 feet of the site , any neighborhood association within one mile.

   C.   Decision and Notice of Decision

      1.   The Zoning Administrator shall make a final, written, zoning determination and mail notice of the determination or certification to the applicant and all parties of record within the time frames set forth in Section 3-02, Compliance Review Timeframes Policy, of the Administrative Manual. The applicant or the Zoning Administrator may place other parties on notice of the determination or certification by providing a copy of the application to such parties at the time it is submitted to the Zoning Administrator and listing such persons as a party of record in the application. The Zoning Administrator may include as a party of record a person (s) affected by the proposed development as provided in Section 1.5.1.B.2 and any person as determined by the Zoning Administrator who may be personally affected by the proposed development in a manner that is beyond the impact of the development on the general public;

      2.   The Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with an opportunity to meet with designated City staff to discuss the Zoning Administrator’s written determination;

      3.   The Zoning Administrator shall rely on the purpose of the UDC section in question when making a zoning determination;

      4.   The Zoning Administrator may designate certain decisions as precedent for future decisions. Any decision so designated shall be binding upon future cases unless reversed on appeal. One copy of all precedent decisions shall be maintained by the Zoning Administrator and one copy shall be maintained by the City Clerk for public review and inspection;

      5.   All zoning determinations shall be posted to the City website; and,

      6.   The Zoning Administrator’s determination shall be binding upon the applicant and all parties of record unless appealed.

   D.   Substantive Policy Statements

   The Zoning Administrator may, in his sole discretion, also issue substantive policy statements. Such written, substantive policy statements will be advisory in nature, providing information regarding the City ’s policies and current practices, procedures, methods of action and approach to implementing the stated policy and the UDC and the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals.

   No less than annually, the City shall publish, on its website, a directory summarizing any substantive policy statements and maintain a copy of the directory and policy statements at the office of the Planning and Development Services Department, where they will be available for public inspection.

   E.   Appeals to the Zoning Determination

      1.   A party of record to a zoning determination can appeal the determination;

      2.   Appeals are considered by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Sections 3.10.1 and 3.10.2, Board of Adjustment Appeal Procedure;

      3.   Notice of intent to appeal, including a statement explaining the reason for the appeal, must be filed with the Planning and Development Services Department no later than 14 days after the effective date of the zoning determination; and,

      4.   The complete appeal application is due no later than 30 days after the effective date of the zoning determination.

##### 1.5.2.   DETERMINATIONS OF GRAPHICS AND CAPTIONS

   All graphics and captions included in the UDC are for illustrative purposes and do not have legal status, unless specified otherwise.

##### 1.5.3.   REFERENCES TO OTHER CODES AND LAWS

   Section references to codes and laws other than the UDC , such as the Arizona Revised Statutes (A.R.S.) or other chapters in the Tucson Code, are generally provided for the reader’s convenience. Since these codes and laws are adopted separately from the UDC , the references are administratively amended as needed to assure that correct references are maintained. These administrative amendments do not affect the substantive application of the UDC .

##### 1.5.4.   TERMS

   For purposes of the UDC , the terms regulations, standards, and requirements all refer to regulatory provisions of the UDC .

(Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020)

