#### 1.7.   TRANSITIONAL REGULATIONS

##### 1.7.1.   PURPOSE

   The purpose of transitional regulations is to clarify the status of properties with pending applications or recent approvals, as those terms are used below, and properties with outstanding violations , at the time of the adoption of this UDC .

##### 1.7.2.   VIOLATIONS CONTINUE

   Any violation of the previous Land Use Code (LUC) shall continue to be a violation under this UDC and shall be subject to the penalties and enforcement in Article 10, Enforcement and Penalties; except when a use, structure , or lot not lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of this UDC is deemed lawful and conforming as of the effective date of this UDC if it conforms to all of the standards of this UDC . Payment shall be required for any civil penalty assessed under the previous code, even if the original violation is no longer considered a violation under this UDC .

##### 1.7.3.   NONCONFORMING USES , STRUCTURES , AND LOTS

   A.   When a building , structure, or lot is used for a purpose that was a lawful use before the effective date of this UDC , or before the adoption of original City zoning for an annexed property, and this UDC does not classify such use as an allowed use in the zoning district in which it is located, such use shall be considered nonconforming and shall be controlled by Article 9, Nonconforming Uses , Buildings , and Structures.

   B.   Where any use, building , structure, or lot that legally existed on the effective date of this Code does not meet all standards set forth in the UDC , such use, building , structure, or lot shall be considered nonconforming and shall be controlled by Article 9, Nonconforming Uses , Buildings , and Structures.

##### 1.7.4.   APPLICATIONS COMMENCED OR APPROVED UNDER PREVIOUS ORDINANCES

   A.   Pending Applications

      1.   Any complete application that has been submitted for approval, but upon which no final action has been taken by the appropriate decision-making body prior to the effective date of this UDC , shall be reviewed in accordance with an ordinance in effect on the date the application was deemed complete. There may be a transition period set forth by ordinance which allows an applicant to select whether the LUC or UDC will governs the development during a limited time period (see Choice of Code below). If the applicant fails to comply with any applicable required period for submittal or other procedural requirements for the applicable code, the application shall expire and subsequent applications shall be subject to the standards of this UDC . Any re-application for an expired project approval shall meet the standards in effect at the time of re-application.

      2.   An applicant with a complete application that has been submitted for approval, but upon which no final action has been taken prior to the effective date of this UDC , may request review under this UDC , or a form of the LUC then applicable by a written letter to the Planning and Development Services Department.

   B.   Tentative and Final Plats

      1.   Tentative plat approvals granted prior to the effective date of this UDC may be extended no more than once, and for no longer than one year.

      2.   A final plat application, for which the tentative plat was approved prior to the effective date of this UDC , may be processed pursuant to the applicable terms of the ordinance in place at the time of tentative plat approval, even if the application does not comply with standards set forth in this UDC .

   C.   Approved Projects

      1.   Approvals and permits that are valid on January 2, 2013, shall remain valid until their expiration date. Projects with valid approvals or permits may be completed in conformance to the regulatory provisions in effect at the time of approval.

      2.   Any building or development for which a building permit was granted prior to the effective date of this UDC may be permitted to proceed to construction. If the development for which the building permit is issued prior to the effective date of this UDC fails to comply with the time frames for development established for the building permit, the building permit shall expire and future development shall comply with the standards of this UDC .

   D.   Choice of Code

   For a period of three years after the effective date of this UDC , an applicant who was the landowner of record prior to the effective date of this UDC may choose to be governed by the provisions of this UDC or those of the Land Use Code (LUC) in effect on the date this UDC becomes effective. During this three-year transition period, ending January 2, 2016, the landowner shall comply, without exception, with all provisions of either the UDC or LUC selected by that landowner. For a period of one year ending January 1, 2014, applicants electing to be governed by the LUC will have the ability to seek modifications or exceptions pursuant to: Flexible Lot Development (FLD), Design Development Option (DDO), and Parking Design Modification Request (PDMR). Between January 2, 2014 and January 2, 2016, applicants electing to be governed by the LUC will not have the ability to seek modifications or exceptions pursuant to the FLD, DDO, and PDMR. The selection shall be made and communicated to the City on a form provided by the City prior to acceptance of any development applications on the subject property. The landowner shall not be permitted to alternate compliance between the previous LUC and current UDC during the three-year transition period. At the expiration of the three-year transition period, the LUC will be repealed.

   E.   Waiver of Potential Claims

   By electing to proceed under this code, the property owner waives any and all potential claims that may arise under A.R.S. §§12-1134 et seq. for any diminution in the value of his property that may be claimed from any difference between the requirements and standards of this code and those of the LUC.

(Am. Ord. 11070, 5/14/2013)

