#### 10.2.   ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY

   Enforcement of UDC provisions is the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator as provided by state law. The Zoning Administrator is assisted by the Planning and Development Services Department (PDSD), the Housing and Community Development Department (HCDD), and other City departments in enforcement as provided by this article. Enforcement is ensured as follows:

##### 10.2.1.   COMPLIANCE REVIEW, PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT

   No land may be used or occupied; no site improvement, modification, or construction started; no existing use or structure expanded, reconstructed, changed, or otherwise altered; and no land may be divided into multiple parcels until compliance with the provisions of the UDC has been certified through a zoning review process by PDSD. No City agency may issue a permit for excavation , grubbing, grading , paving, demolition, or construction of any sort before certification of compliance with provisions of the UDC has been determined by PDSD. In the event a zoning regulation requires interpretation, such interpretation shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with Sections 1.5, Interpretations of the Unified Development Code.

##### 10.2.2.   COMPLIANCE REVIEW, DURING CONSTRUCTION

   Monitoring of construction for compliance with plans approved through the zoning review process as required in Section 10.2.1, Compliance Review, Proposed Development, is the responsibility of PDSD. The PDSD shall monitor the implementation of the proposed development to ensure compliance with the plans approved for zoning compliance. PDSD has the authority to suspend construction when construction does not conform with the plans approved for zoning compliance.

##### 10.2.3.   COMPLIANCE REVIEW, EXISTING DEVELOPMENT

   Any land used or occupied; any site improvement, modification, or construction started; any existing use or structure expanded, reconstructed, changed, or otherwise altered; and any land divided into multiple parcels without certification of compliance with the provisions of the UDC through a zoning review process is considered a violation of the UDC . Enforcement of violations shall be in accordance with Section 10.4, Penalties and Remedies.

##### 10.2.4.   COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATION, EXISTING PREMISES

   The Zoning Administrator, upon written request, shall issue a written determination on whether an existing use or building was legally established in compliance with zoning regulations at the time the use was established or the structure was constructed, in accordance with Section 1.5, Interpretations of the Unified Development Code.

##### 10.2.5.   CONTINUED COMPLIANCE FOR APPROVED SITE PLANS

   Once a site plan is completed, the approved site plan remains as part of the public record and runs continuously with the land, regardless of ownership. Change of use , removal or modification of improvements (including landscaping , screening, and parking) shown on the plan, or additions made without going through the site plan process for approval for a change in the approved site plan constitute a zoning violation .

##### 10.2.6.   REVOCATION OF ZONING COMPLIANCE APPROVAL

   Continued operation of a land use activity for which a zoning compliance certificate or approval has been revoked constitutes a violation of the UDC and shall be pursued in accordance with Section 10.4, Penalties and Remedies.

