#### 10.4.   PENALTIES AND REMEDIES

##### 10.4.1.   ACTIONS BY THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR

   The Zoning Administrator with assistance from the HCDD may take any of the following actions to ensure enforcement of the UDC and any condition placed on development of a property due to an administrative or legislative decision or action by a City Review Authority described in Article 2 of the UDC :

   A.   Conduct an investigation of any site with the express permission of the owner or tenant. If the owner or tenant refuses permission to conduct the investigation, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a citation pursuant to Chapter 11, Art. VI of the Tucson Code, based on the testimony of the complainant;

   B.   Serve written notice upon the owner, agent, or tenant of the property, who is the subject of the violation , requiring cessation or correction of the violation ;

   C.   Issue a citation pursuant to Chapter 8 of the Tucson Code;

   D.   Report violations to the City Attorney as appropriate;

   E.   Report violations to the Planning and Development Services Department (PDSD) Director as appropriate; or,

   F.   Take such further action as deemed appropriate to assure compliance.

##### 10.4.2.   ACTION BY THE CITY ATTORNEY

   If any property or improvement thereon is used in violation of the provisions of the UDC , the City Attorney, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to:

   A.   Restrain, correct, or abate such violation ;

   B.   Prevent the occupancy of such building , structure, or land; or,

   C.   Prevent any additional violation arising from further conduct, business, or use, in or about such premises.

##### 10.4.3.   ACTION BY THE PDSD DIRECTOR

   The PDSD Director has the authority to disconnect or order utility companies to disconnect utility services to the premises involved in a violation until compliance is met, subject to the following:

   A.   No such action by the PDSD Director may be taken until ten days after receipt by the tenant or by the owner of the premises of written notice of intent to take action;

   B.   If a written request for review of the matter is received within ten days of receipt of the notice of intent, the action by the PDSD Director is stayed until a hearing thereon by the Board of Adjustment (B/A) or hearing as required by Chapter 8 of the Tucson Code is held; and,

   C.   This provision does not preclude the use of any other enforcement method provided in the Tucson Code or the Arizona Revised Statutes.

##### 10.4.4.   ADDITIONAL PENALTIES FOR UNAUTHORIZED DEMOLITION OF HISTORIC STRUCTURES

   Penalties for the unauthorized demolition of historic structures are in accordance with Section 5.8.10.E.9.

##### 10.4.5.   PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF NATIVE PLANT PRESERVATION STANDARDS

   In addition to the general remedies authorized by Sections 10.4.1 through 10.4.3, any violation of Section 7.7, Native Plant Preservation, is subject to the following enforcement, penalties, fines, and other remedies:

   A.   Fines

   Any person who, individually or through the acts of another person , intentionally or negligently damages, destroys, or removes from the site any protected native plant , except as authorized by an approved Native Plant Preservation Plan , is subject to the following:

      1.   A fine as determined for the damage, destruction, or removal from the site of each protected native plant based upon the following schedule:

         a.   For each viable Saguaro: a minimum of $200 per foot of main trunk and $200 per foot of each arm with a maximum not to exceed $2,500 per Saguaro;

         b.   For each viable protected native tree or shrub: a minimum of $300 per caliper inch measured at six inches for single-trunked specimens and 12 inches for multi-trunked specimens above grade level at the base of the tree with a maximum not to exceed $2,500 per tree or shrub; or,

         c.   For all other viable protected native cacti or succulents: a minimum of $300 per specimen with a maximum not to exceed $2,500 per cactus.

      2.   A fine of not less than $500 nor more than $2,500 if plant materials are damaged , destroyed, or removed from the site prior to approval of a Native Plant Preservation Plan .

   B.   Additional Penalties

   Any person who, individually or through the acts of another person , intentionally or negligently damages, destroys, or removes from the site any protected native plant , except as authorized by an approved Native Plant Preservation Plan , may be subject to one or more of the following, in addition to any fines imposed in accordance with Section 10.4.5.A:

      1.   Mitigation in accordance with Section 7.7.5, Plant Preservation Standards, and any supplemental mitigation determined to be appropriate to restore the natural habitat and plant communities which have been damaged , destroyed, or removed from the site ;

      2.   Supplemental maintenance and monitoring requirements for protected native plants following the final inspection performed on the site for a period not to exceed eight years;

      3.   Revocation of zoning compliance for any building permits which have been issued for the development ; or,

      4.   Immediate suspension by the PDSD Director of any permits issued by the City for development of the property. Any such suspension shall remain in effect until permits expire unless the violation in a manner which is satisfactory to the PDSD Director . The decision by the PDSD Director to suspend any permit, or to reject a proposal to provide the mitigation necessary for the reinstatement of the permits, shall be appealable pursuant to PDSD’s established procedures.

   C.   Recording of Permit Suspension or Revocation

   Where any permit issued by the City is suspended until its expiration pursuant to Section 10.4.5.B.4, no new permit may be issued for the property until any fines issued pursuant to Section 10.4.5.A have been fully paid and all mitigation required pursuant to Section 10.4.5.B.1 has been fully performed. A notice of this requirement for the issuance of any future development permit on the property shall be recorded on the property by the PDSD Director with the Pima County Recorder.

ARTICLE 11: DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION
-------------------------------------------------

Section

11.1.   ARTICLE ORGANIZATION

11.2.   GENERAL RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE

   11.2.1.   Heading

   11.2.2.   Illustration

   11.2.3.   Tenses and Numbers

   11.2.4.   Conjunctions

   11.2.5.   Undefined Terms

11.3.   DEFINITIONS OF LAND USE GROUPS, CLASSES, AND TYPES

   11.3.1.   Purpose and Provisions

   11.3.2.   Agricultural Use Group

   11.3.3.   Civic Use Group

   11.3.4.   Commercial Services Use Group

   11.3.5.   Industrial Use Group

   11.3.6.   Recreation Use Group

   11.3.7.   Residential Use Group

   11.3.8.   Restricted Adult Activities Use Group

   11.3.9.   Retail Trade Use Group

   11.3.10.   Storage Use Group

   11.3.11.   Utilities Use Group

   11.3.12.   Wholesaling Use Group

11.4.   OTHER TERMS DEFINED

   11.4.1.   Purpose

   11.4.2.   Definitions-A

   11.4.3.   Definitions-B

   11.4.4.   Definitions-C

   11.4.5.   Definitions-D

   11.4.6.   Definitions-E

   11.4.7.   Definitions-F

   11.4.8.   Definitions-G

   11.4.9.   Definitions-H

   11.4.10.   Definitions-I

   11.4.11.   Definitions-J

   11.4.12.   Definitions-K

   11.4.13.   Definitions-L

   11.4.14.   Definitions-M

   11.4.15.   Definitions-N

   11.4.16.   Definitions-O

   11.4.17.   Definitions-P

   11.4.18.   Definitions-Q

   11.4.19.   Definitions-R

   11.4.20.   Definitions-S

   11.4.21.   Definitions-T

   11.4.22.   Definitions-U

   11.4.23.   Definitions-V

   11.4.24.   Definitions-W

   11.4.25.   Definitions-X

   11.4.26.   Definitions-Y

   11.4.27.   Definitions-Z

