#### 3.12.   MISCELLANEOUS PERMITS AND APPROVALS

##### 3.12.1.   ARCHITECTURAL DOCUMENTATION PRIOR TO DEMOLITION OF HISTORIC BUILDINGS

   A.   Applicability

   These regulations apply when an application for a demolition permit involves the complete or partial demolition of a building that is partially or in its entirety 50 or more years old.

   B.   Required Documentation

   Applications for permits for the demolition of buildings that are partially or in their entirety 50 or more years old must include architectural documentation to provide a permanent record of buildings of historical significance before their loss. Demolition applications are available from PDSD.

      1.   Minor Documentation

      Minor Documentation is required for demolition permit requests for all buildings that are partially or in their entirety 50 or more years old, but are not contributing properties within designated or pending National Register Historic Districts; are not individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places; and do not meet the eligibility criteria for the National Register of Historic Places. For buildings that otherwise meet the criteria for full documentation, only Minor Documentation is required if the demolition will be limited to an addition that is less than 50 years old.

      2.   Full Documentation

      Full documentation is required for demolition permit requests for all buildings that are partially or in their entirety 50 or more years old and are:

         a.   Contributing properties within designated or pending National Register Historic Districts;

         b.   Individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places; or,

         c.   Meet the criteria for eligibility for the National Register of Historic Places.

      3.   Additional Documentation

      If the building to be completely or partially demolished is located in a Historic Preservation Zone (HPZ) or the Rio Nuevo District (RND) overlay zone , compliance with the applicable demolition review and approval requirements contained in Section 5.8.10 through Section 5.8.12 and Section 5.11.7 is required in addition to the provisions contained in this section.

   C.   Review Required

   The applicant shall submit minor or full architectural documentation to PDSD for review before issuance of a demolition permit.

   D.   Application and Review Process

      1.   Prior to the submittal of a demolition permit application, the applicant may meet with the PDSD. At that time, the PDSD shall determine whether the application requires Minor or Full Documentation.

      2.   At the time of submittal, the applicant shall submit two copies of the demolition permit application and all required architectural documentation to the PDSD. All new photos must be printed on photographic paper.

      3.   If Minor Documentation is required, the PDSD reviews and approves the applications for completeness in accordance with Section 3.2.3.A. The PDSD determines and informs the applicant that the Minor Documentation is complete, or of any additional documentation which is required.

      4.   If full documentation is required, the Historic Preservation Officer (HPO) reviews and approves the applications for completeness, and informs the applicant that full documentation is complete or informs the applicant of any additional documentation which is required.

      5.   If the PDSD or the HPO determine that the required architectural documentation is complete, then a demolition permit application may be processed. The applicant must demonstrate compliance with all provisions of the Tucson Code before a demolition permit will be issued.

   E.   Minor Documentation Required

   Minor Documentation shall include:

      1.   Current photographs of the front, rear and sides of the building to be completely or partially demolished (printed on photographic paper); and,

      2.   Documentation from the County Assessor’s records, the State Historic Preservation Office, or other official government records confirming the year of construction and dates of additions to the building to be demolished. Some of this documentation of construction dates may be available at the PDSD.

   F.   Full Documentation Required

   Full documentation shall include:

      1.   Floor plans with measured dimensions;

      2.   Photographs of the front, rear and sides of the building to be completely or partially demolished, and all interior rooms;

      3.   A ‘context photograph’ illustrating the relationship between the building to be completely or partially demolished and the nearest adjacent  buildings in the Development Zone . The Development Zone is defined in Section 11.4.5;

      4.   Copies of old photographs of the building to be completely or partially demolished (taken at least 20 years prior to the demolition application), if in the possession of the applicant;

      5.   Documentation from the County Assessor’s records, the State Historic Preservation Office, or other official government records confirming the year of construction and dates of additions to the building to be demolished. Some of this documentation of construction dates may be available at PDSD;

      6.   A general description of construction materials, such as exterior walls, roofing, windows, porches, and carports of the building to be demolished; and,

      7.   A list of any important historical events or historically significant persons related to the building to be demolished, if known to the applicant.

   G.   Documentation Retention

   Upon approval of the demolition permit, the HPO shall retain one copy as a record of a lost historic resource and forward one copy to the Tucson-Pima County Historical Commission for their records.

##### 3.12.2.   PROTECTED DEVELOPMENT RIGHT

   A.   General

      1.   After a site plan or tentative or final plat has been approved, an applicant may apply for a protected development right (PDR). A PDR is a right granted to undertake and complete the development and use of property as shown on the PDR Plan without needing to comply with subsequent changes in zoning standards and technical standards adopted during the period of the PDR, except as provided by A.R.S. §9-1204. In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the UDC and A.R.S. §§9-1201 through 9-1205 inclusive, as they may be amended, the statutory provisions shall govern.

      2.   The protected development right also precludes the enforcement against the development of any City  land use regulation that would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, delay, or otherwise impact the development or use of the property as set forth in the approved plan except as provided herein.

      3.   The protected development right does not vest until the Mayor and Council approve the plan or plat as a protected development right plan at public hearing.

   B.   Applicability

   The Mayor and Council may consider granting a PDR to the following:

      1.   An approved plat or site plan provided the PDR is granted prior to the plat or site plan expiring; or,

      2.   Concurrent with the initial approval of a plat or site plan upon a finding that granting a protected development right to undertake and complete the development shown on the plan will promote reasonable certainty, stability and fairness in the land use planning and regulatory process and secure the reasonable investment-backed expectations of the owner.

   C.   Application

   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. The PDR application requirements are provided in Section 2-12.0.0 of the Administrative Manual. Applications are reviewed for completeness in compliance with Section 3.2.3.A, Application Required. Following acceptance of the application, it will be scheduled for consideration by the Mayor and Council.

   D.   Nonphased and Phased Development Standards

   Applications may be filed for nonphased or phased protected development right plans as follows:

      1.   Nonphased Development

      Nonphased developments are developments constructed in one phase. An application for a protected development right for a nonphased development , must comply with the requirements in accordance with:

         a.   Article 8, Land Division, Land Split , and Subdivision Standards, and applicable standards of the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals for a subdivision  plat ; or

         b.   Section 3.3.3.G, Site Plans, and applicable standards of the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals for a site plan .

      2.   Phased Development

         a.   For consideration and approval as a protected development right plan, a phased development shall be a master planned development which:

            (1)   Consists of at least 40 acres depicted on a single master subdivision  plat for a residential development ;

            (2)   Consists of at least 20 acres depicted on a single master subdivision  plat or site plan for a nonresidential development ;

            (3)   Is a Planned Area Development (PAD) zone ; or,

            (4)   The Mayor and Council have identified as a phased development for the purposes of protected development rights .

         b.   An application for a protected development right for a phased development , must comply with the requirements set forth in:

            (1)   Article 8, Land Division, Land Split , and Subdivision Standards, and applicable standards of the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals, if the master planned development consists of at least 40 acres depicted on a single master subdivision  plat for a residential development ;

            (2)   Article 8, Land Division, Land Split , and Subdivision Standards, and applicable standards of the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals, if the master planned development consists of at least twenty (20) acres depicted on a single master subdivision  plat for a nonresidential development ;

            (3)   Section 3.3.3.G, Site Plans, and applicable standards of the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals, if the master planned development consists of at least 20 acres depicted on a single master site plan for a nonresidential development ; or,

            (4)   Section 3.5.5, Planned Area Development (PAD) Zone, and applicable standards of the Administrative and Technical Standards Manuals for a master planned development which is a PAD.

   E.   Granting of a PDR

      1.   A PDR shall be granted upon approval by the Mayor and Council.

      2.   The Mayor and Council may impose terms and conditions of approval.

      3.   Upon Mayor and Council approval, the landowner has the right to undertake and complete the development only to the extent of the specific elements and details shown on the plan.

      4.   Approval of a protected development right plan for one phase of a phased development is not approval of a protected development right plan for any other phase.

   F.   Effective Date

      1.   A PDR shall be deemed established with respect to a property on the effective date of Mayor and Council approval of the PDR Plan, except as follows.

      2.   Exception. A protected development right plan approved with a condition that a variance be obtained does not confer a protected development right until the variance is granted. Approval of a protected development right plan does not guarantee approval of a variance.

   G.   Expiration Date and Extension

      1.   Nonphased

      A protected development right plan for a nonphased development is valid for three years.

         a.   In its sole discretion, the Mayor and Council may extend this time for a maximum of two additional years if it determines such extension is warranted by all relevant circumstances, including the size and type of the development , the level of investment of the landowner, economic cycles, and market conditions.

         b.   If no building permit has been issued prior to expiration, no construction shall commence under the plan.

      2.   Phased

      A protected development right plan for a phased development is valid for five years.

         a.   In its sole discretion, the Mayor and Council may extend this time for a maximum of two additional years if it determines such extension is warranted by all relevant circumstances, including the size, type and phasing of the development , the level of investment of the landowner, economic cycles, and market conditions.

         b.   No construction shall take place on the property for any phase for which a building permit has not been issued.

   H.   Modification of Site Plan Expiration Dates

   Notwithstanding Section 3.3.3.G.6.a, a site plan that has been designated a PDR Plan shall expire upon termination of the PDR.

   I.   Enforcement

      1.   Subsequent Land Use Standards

      A protected development precludes the enforcement of legislative or administrative land use regulations that would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, delay, or impact the development or use of the property as approved in the Protected Development Right Plan, except under any one of the following circumstances:

         a.   Landowner Consent

         The affected landowner consents in writing.

         b.   Natural or Man-Made Hazard

         The Mayor and Council declare by resolution, after notice and a public hearing, that natural or man-made hazard on or in the immediate vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health, safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as approved in the Protected Development Right Plan.

         c.   Inaccurate Information

         Declaration by the Mayor and Council by resolution after notice and a public hearing that the owner or his representative intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations that made a difference in the approval of the Protected Development Right Plan by the City .

         d.   Enactment of State or Federal Law

         The enactment of a state or federal law or regulation that precludes development as approved in the Protected Development Right Plan, in which case the Mayor and Council, after notice and a public hearing, may modify the affected provisions, on a finding that the change in state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the Protected Development Right Plan.

      2.   Subsequent Overlay Zoning, Development Fees, and Other Codes

      A protected development right does not preclude the enforcement of the following:

         a.   Overlay Zone

         A subsequently adopted overlay zoning classification that imposes additional requirements and that does not affect the allowable type or density of use.

         b.   Development Fee

         A subsequently adopted development fee applicable to similar properties in the City adopted pursuant to A.R.S. §9-463.05.

         c.   Other Codes

         A subsequently adopted building , fire, plumbing, electrical, or mechanical code or other ordinance or regulation general in nature and applicable to all property subject to land use regulation by the City .

      3.   Nonconforming Uses and Structures

      A protected development right does not preclude, change, or impair the authority of the City to adopt and enforce zoning ordinance provisions governing nonconforming uses or structures on the property.

      4.   Suspension and Revocation Procedures

      The City is permitted by state law to subject a Protected Development Right Plan to subsequent reviews and approvals consistent with the original approval. The City may revoke its approval of a Protected Development Right Plan for failure to comply with the applicable terms and conditions of approval. The procedure for compliance review suspension and revocation is described as follows:

         a.   PDSD Director Monitors Compliance

         After the approval of a Protected Development Right Plan, the PDSD Director or designee shall monitor the progress of the development to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the original approval or any development agreement applicable to the property.

         b.   Suspension or Revocation

         The PDSD Director or designee may suspend or revoke a protected development right after notice to the applicant. The notice shall contain the Protected Development Right Plan to be revoked, the property to which it applies, and the reason(s) for the proposed suspension or revocation.

         c.   Appeal to Mayor and Council

         The PDSD Director ’s decision to revoke a protected development right may be appealed to Mayor and Council in accordance with Section 3.9.2, Mayor and Council Appeal Procedure, by filing a notice of intent to appeal with the City Clerk no later than 14 days after the effective date of the decision. The complete appeal materials must be filed with the PDSD within 30 days of the effective date of the decision.

   J.   Successors

   After approval of the protected development right plan, all successors to the original landowner are entitled to exercise the protected development rights .

##### 3.12.3.   MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT AND ADAPTIVE REUSE OF QUALIFIED OBSOLETE COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS

      A.   Purpose

         This section describes application requirements, review procedures, and approval criteria utilized by City of Tucson staff when reviewing an application for multifamily residential development or adaptive reuse of qualified obsolete commercial buildings pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.10.

      B.   Applicability

         1.   When not specifically addressed in UDC Section 3.12.3, development  standards for multifamily residential development and adaptive reuse shall be based on development  standards for the highest density Urban Residential Zone within one mile of the project site . Where there is a conflict between the standards of this section and the rest of the UDC, the standards of this section shall apply.

         2.   For the purpose of UDC Section 3.12.3, and only Section 3.12.3, the following shall be defined as:

            a.   Adaptive Reuse 

               The act of converting an existing building from the use for which it was constructed to a new use maintaining some or all of the elements of the building . Adaptive reuse allows for the partial, but not the complete, demolition of an existing commercial, office, or mixed use  building . For a project to qualify as Adaptive Reuse, it must include a multifamily residential component.

            b.   Building Code 

               Means the federal construction codes applicable to homes constructed after June 15, 1976, and the Arizona codes applicable to homes constructed before that date. The Building Code may include local amendments specific to the City of Tucson.

            c.   Moderate Income Housing

               Means housing: (a) for a person or persons whose household income does not exceed 120% of the area median income. (b) For which the occupant pays not more than 30% of the occupant's gross income for the occupant's rent or mortgage, as determined by the Arizona Department of Housing and adjusted for household size based on the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.

            d.   Qualified Obsolete Commercial Building

               A building which is currently zoned for and/or permitted to be used for commercial, office, or mixed uses; and is:

               (1)   In a state of disrepair or has a 50% vacancy in the total leasable square footage; and

               (2)   Located on a parcel or parcels of least one acre but not more than 20 acres.

            e.   Multifamily Residential Development 

               A building or buildings that are designed and used for residential purposes and that contain more than one apartment or dwelling unit for sale or for rent but that are not adaptive reuse. Multifamily residential development allows for the partial or complete demolition or renovation of an existing commercial, office, or mixed use  building .

            f.   Rooftop Appurtenances

               Rooftop structures that primarily house air conditioning equipment, solar panels, utilities , elevators, other energy production facilities and other non-habitable structures . This includes open space features, swimming pools, space for use by residents and landscaping , but does not include open areas, spires, bell towers, domes, cupolas, pediments, obelisks or monuments.

         3.   Multifamily Residential Development or Adaptive Reuse under this UDC Section 3.12.3 does not apply to the following:

            a.   Land in the area that is designated a National Register Historic District , Historic Preservation Zone , or Historic Landmark ;

            b.   Land in the territory in the vicinity of a military airport or ancillary military facility as defined by A.R.S. § 28-8461;

            c.   Land in the territory in the vicinity of a Federal Aviation Administration commercially licensed airport or a general aviation or public airport as defined A.R.S. § 28-8486.

         4.   All applicable overlay zones or associated requirements addressed elsewhere within the Unified Development Code shall apply to this Section.

      C.   Obsolete Commercial Building Redevelopment

         1.   An applicant seeking multifamily residential development or adaptive reuse of a qualified obsolete commercial building shall submit an application that includes the following:

            a.   Evidence satisfactory to the City of Tucson Attorney that the existing building that is the subject of the application is economically or functionally obsolete.

            b.   Documentation satisfactory to the City of Tucson Planning and Development Services Department and the City Attorney that the redevelopment will include a set aside of at least 10% of the total dwelling units for either moderate-income or low-income housing or any combination of the two for at least 20 years after the initial occupation of the proposed development .

            c.   A site plan in conformance with UDC Section 3.3.3.G and all other applicable UDC requirements for site plans .

            d.   Evidence of site plan review and approval by any utility provider impacted by the proposed development .

            e.   Evidence of adequate existing public sewer and water service for the entire proposed development .

            f.   Compliance with all applicable Building Codes and fire codes.

      D.   Mixed Use and Multi-Family Development or Adaptive Reuse

         1.   Setbacks

            Setback requirements for the redevelopment shall be the lesser of the existing setbacks for multifamily residential buildings , or the setback requirements that applied to the existing commercial, office, or mixed use  building , in accordance with UDC Article 6.3. Setback may also be referred to as a perimeter yard .

         2.   Height and Density

            Multifamily residential height and density shall not exceed:

            a.   The maximum allowable multi-family height and density for a multi-family  zoning district in the City of Tucson, located within one mile of the building to be developed; or

            b.   If there is no multifamily zoning district in the City of Tucson within one mile of the building to be redeveloped, the height and density of the multifamily zoning district located in the City of Tucson located closest to the building to be redeveloped;

            c.   Building height is limited to no more than five stories (55 feet).

         3.   Height Exemption for existing non-conforming buildings

            If the maximum allowable height applicable to the existing commercial, office, or mixed use  building exceeds the maximum allowable height in the existing zone for the proposed use, the existing height may remain and shall be considered nonconforming for height purposes and the existing building may be expanded to the maximum allowable density for the proposed use. Any rooftop appurtenances shall be included within the height exemption.

      E.   Multifamily Residential Development or Adaptive Reuse Cap, Tracking, and Area Exclusion

         1.   Cap

            Not more than 1,030 of the existing commercial, office, or mixed use  buildings may be redeveloped for multifamily residential development or adaptive reuse under this Article.

         2.   Tracking

            The City of Tucson Planning and Development Services Department shall keep track of the number of buildings redeveloped under this Article, and shall stop accepting applications when the total number of the following equals the cap established in subsection 1. above:

            a.   The number of buildings redeveloped for multifamily residential development or adaptive reuse under this Article; plus

            b.   The number of buildings with approved building permits for redevelopment under this Article but not yet completed; plus

            c.   The number of buildings with pending applications for redevelopment under this article but not yet permitted.

(Ord. 12139, 12/10/2024)

ARTICLE 4: ZONES
----------------

Section

4.1.   PURPOSE

4.2.   ESTABLISHMENT OF BOUNDARIES

4.3.   CATEGORIES OF LAND USES

   4.3.1.   Permitted Land Use

   4.3.2.   Special Exception Land Uses

   4.3.3.   Accessory Land Uses

   4.3.4.   Temporary Land Use

4.4.   ORGANIZATION OF LAND USES

   4.4.1.   General

   4.4.2.   Land Use Group

   4.4.3.   Land Use Class

   4.4.4.   Land Use Type

4.5.   MORE RESTRICTIVE ZONING

4.6.   ZONING OF LAND ANNEXED INTO THE CITY

4.7.   ZONES - PURPOSE

   4.7.1.   Open Space  Zone (OS)

   4.7.2.   Institutional Reserve (IR)

   4.7.3.   Rural Homestead Zone (RH)

   4.7.4.   Suburban Ranch Zone (SR)

   4.7.5.   Suburban Homestead Zone (SH)

   4.7.6.   Residence Zone (RX-1)

   4.7.7.   Residence Zone (RX-2)

   4.7.8.   Residence Zone (R-1)

   4.7.9.   Residence Zone (R-2)

   4.7.10.   Mobile Home Zone (MH-1)

   4.7.11.   Mobile Home Zone (MH-2)

   4.7.12.   Residence Zone (R-3)

   4.7.13.   Office Zone (O-1)

   4.7.14.   Office Zone (O-2)

   4.7.15.   Office Zone (O-3)

   4.7.16.   Parking Zone (P)

   4.7.17.   Recreational Vehicle  Zone (RV)

   4.7.18.   Neighborhood Commercial Zone (NC)

   4.7.19.   Rural Village Center Zone (RVC)

   4.7.20.   Commercial Zone (C-1)

   4.7.21.   Commercial Zone (C-2)

   4.7.22.   Commercial Zone (C-3)

   4.7.23.   Mixed Use  Zone (MU)

   4.7.24.   Planned Area Development (PAD)

   4.7.25.   Planned Community Development (PCD)

   4.7.26.   Office/Commercial/Residential Zone (OCR-1)

   4.7.27.   Office/Commercial/Residential Zone (OCR-2)

   4.7.28.   Park Industrial Zone (P-I)

   4.7.29.   Light Industrial Zone (I-1)

   4.7.30.   Heavy Industrial Zone (I-2)

4.8.   USE TABLES

   4.8.1.   General

   4.8.2.   Organization

   4.8.3.   Permitted Uses: Rural and Suburban Residential zones

   4.8.4.   Permitted Uses: Urban Residential zones

   4.8.5.   Permitted Uses: Office zones

   4.8.6.   Permitted Uses: Commercial and Mixed Use  Zones

   4.8.7.   Permitted Uses: Industrial Zones

   4.8.8.   Permitted Uses: Special Use Zones (1) - OS, IR, R, & RV

   4.8.9.   Permitted Uses: Special Use Zones (2) - NC, RVC, & MU

4.9.   USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS

   4.9.1.   General

   4.9.2.   Agricultural Use Group

   4.9.3.   Civic Use Group

   4.9.4.   Commercial Services Use Group

   4.9.5.   Industrial Use Group

   4.9.6.   Recreation Use Group

   4.9.7.   Residential Use Group

   4.9.8.   Restricted Adult Activities Use Group

   4.9.9.   Retail Trade Use Group

   4.9.10.   Storage Use Group

   4.9.11.   Utilities Use Group

   4.9.12.   Wholesaling Use Group

   4.9.13.   General Standards, Restrictions, and Exceptions

4.10.   ACCESSORY USES , BUILDINGS , AND STRUCTURES

4.11.   TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING

   4.11.1.   Qualification for Permit

   4.11.2.   Bond Required

   4.11.3.   Refund

   4.11.4.   Removal

   4.11.5.   Forfeiture

   4.11.6.   Time Limit

