#### 3.3.   ZONING COMPLIANCE REVIEW PROCEDURES

##### 3.3.1.   PURPOSE

   The purpose of the Zoning Compliance Review is to determine whether an application conforms to applicable zoning regulations.

##### 3.3.2.   REVIEW PROCEDURES

   Compliance with all applicable zoning regulations is verified in accordance with one of the following review procedures:

   A.   PDSD Director approval procedure;

   B.   100' Notice Procedure;

   C.   400' Notice Procedure;

   D.   Zoning Administrator approval procedure in accordance with Section 1.5.1;

   E.   Historic Preservation Zone design review procedure in accordance with Section 5.8.8;

   F.   Neighborhood Preservation Zone design review procedure in accordance with Section 5.10.3; or,

   G.   Rio Nuevo District design review and minor Modification of Development Regulations procedures in accordance with Sections 5.11.8 and 5.11.9, respectively.

(Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020)

##### 3.3.3.   PDSD DIRECTOR APPROVAL PROCEDURE

   A.   Applicability

   Applications that are processed in accordance with the Planning and Development Services (PDSD) Director approval procedure include, but are not limited to:

      1.   Business licenses;

      2.   Changes of use;

      3.   Downtown Area Infill Incentive District - projects within the Downtown Core Sub-District requesting a Modification of Development Regulations (Note: projects within the Greater Infill Incentive Subdistrict are processed in accordance with the 400' Notice Procedure, Section 3.3.5);

      4.   Electrical connections (certain types);

      5.   Expansion of existing premises;

      6.   Home occupations ;

      7.   Individual Parking Plans for projects greater than 400 feet from R-3 or more restrictive  zoning districts or Historic Preservation Zones;

      8.   New construction;

      9.   Nonconforming same land use class substitution;

      10.   Nonconforming parking areas ;

      11.   Parking Design Modification Requests (except requests to modify the number of bicycle or motor vehicle parking spaces );

      12.   Projects within certain overlay zones ;

      13.   Restricted adult activities;

      14.   Site plans (except for projects within overlay zones that require a different procedure);

      15.   Land divisions, land splits , and subdivisions (see Article 8 for detailed procedures);

      16.   Temporary uses or structures (see Section 4.11 for additional requirements);

      17.   Tenant improvements ;

      18.   Wireless communication uses (certain types);

      19.   Zoning compliance for site  improvements in existence on May 1, 2005 (see Section 3.3.3.H below); and,

      20.   Other applications, such as blood donor centers and circus, carnival and tent shows.

   B.   Site Plans

   Some of the above listed application types may also require submission of a site plan with the application (see Section 3.3.3.G for the requirements for site plans ).

   C.   Pre-Application Conference

   A pre-application conference is recommended, but not required, except as provided below (see Section 3.2.1 for details on pre-application conferences).

   D.   Application

   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. (See the Administrative Manual for application submittal requirements.) Applications are reviewed for completeness in compliance with Section 3.2.3, Application Requirements, and compliance with the neighborhood meeting requirements of Section 3.2.2, Neighborhood Meeting.

   E.   Review of Accepted Applications

   Applications are reviewed for compliance with applicable zoning regulations by the PDSD staff and other agencies, committees or advisory boards as required by the UDC and as deemed necessary or appropriate by the PDSD Director .

   F.   Decision

      1.   The PDSD Director decides whether to approve or deny an application.

      2.   The Director is not required to make a decision on an amended application until after the required recommendation on the amended application by an applicable advisory body is received by the PDSD.

   G.   Site Plans

      1.   Purpose

      Certain types of applications listed in Section 3.3.3.A, Applicability (PDSD Director Approval Procedure), may require the submission of a site plan . This section sets forth the requirements of the PDSD Director approval procedure as they pertain to the processing of site plans . These procedural requirements ensure that an applicant provides sufficient information to enable the City to determine compliance with all applicable UDC requirements and other applicable City ordinances, standards, policies, and special conditions.

      2.   Applicability

      A site plan is required for the following types of development :

         a.   All new non-residential development ;

         b.   All residential development with three or more dwelling units on one lot ;

         c.   Existing development undergoing a change of use , building or structure additions, and/or a reconfiguration of an area outside a building ;

         d.   Flexible Lot Developments not required to be processed in accordance with Article 8, Land Division, Land Split , and Subdivision Standards; and,

         e.   A residential, commercial, or industrial use reviewed as a subdivision  plat , but no building permits may be issued until a site plan is approved for all or a portion of the subject subdivision  plat . Any other application type listed in Section 3.3.3.A, Applicability (PDSD Director Approval Procedure), where a site plan submittal is determined by the PDSD Director to be necessary for adequate review of the application.

      3.   Application Processing

      Site plans are processed in accordance with the applicable requirements of Sections 3.3.3.B through F, PDSD Director Approval Procedure.

      4.   Review

      City departments and applicable outside public agencies shall review an application and return comments on the application.

      5.   Approval

         a.   When a determination has been made that an application complies with all applicable regulations, the PDSD Director shall send a written approval confirmation to the applicant and sign the site plan . An approved site plan indicates that all reviews have occurred and all conditions have been met.

         b.   In the case of a rezoning, a written confirmation is used to initiate the preparation of the rezoning ordinance for Mayor and Council consideration. The PDSD Director shall sign the site plan once the rezoning ordinance is adopted and becomes effective.

         c.   An applicant has one year from the date of application to obtain approval of a site plan that complies with zoning and other development requirements in effect at the time of application, unless an ordinance adopted by Mayor and Council during this period states otherwise. A site plan application that has been in review for a period of one year and has not yet been approved is considered denied. To continue the review of a site plan for the property, a new site plan must be submitted that complies with regulations in effect at the time of re-submittal. The new submittal initiates a new one-year review period.

         d.   Approved site plans shall be filed with the official building records for the site and shall be the basis for the issuance of building permits.

      6.   Expiration of Approval

      Expiration dates for site plans are listed below. For the purposes of this section, “construction or building permits” are those permits issued for the construction of the project , such as, but not limited to, infrastructure  improvements , building foundations, buildings , paving vehicular use areas , or similar types of improvements related to the construction and implementation of the project . Permits for: a) clearing, grubbing, and grading of a site ; b) construction of a section of sidewalk ; c) installation of screening; d) paving of an access driveway but not the parking associated with the use; or e) any similar type of work are not considered “construction or building permits” for purposes of this section, unless specifically stated otherwise by this section or the process requiring the applicability of this section.

         a.   Site Plan Approval Period and Expiration

   Except in the case of a Protected Development Right Plan, Section 3.12.2, an approved site plan remains valid for a period of three years from the date of approval, subject to the following.

            (1)   If, at the end of three years, a building permit has not been obtained, a new site plan application must be submitted that complies with the regulations in effect at the time of the re-submittal.

            (2)   If the project is being developed in phases and permits have not been issued for all phases within the three-year period, developers of subsequent phases have one additional year to obtain permits. If, at the end of the four-year period, permits have not been issued, review and approval of a revised site plan for the undeveloped portion(s), in compliance with all applicable requirements in effect at the time of re-submittal, are required prior to the issuance of building permits.

            (3)   If construction permits are issued within the required time period, but the construction of the project has not commenced and the permit and site plan approval periods expire, the approval of the site plan is considered expired. Review and approval of a revised site plan , in compliance with all applicable requirements in effect at the time of re-submittal, are required prior to the issuance of building permits.

            (4)   If construction permits are applied for but not issued within the time period required by this section, the time period is extended an additional three months to allow for completion of the review and for the issuance of permits.

            (5)   If the approval period has expired, the re-submittal to obtain approval of a new site plan initiates a new review period in accordance with Section 3.3.3.B through F.

      7.   Issuance of Permits

      The following provisions apply to review and approval for the issuance of permits for site plans :

         a.   Approved Site Plan

         The approved site plan on file with the PDSD is the basis for issuance of building permits. If the building plans differ from the approved site plan on file with the PDSD, a revised site plan will be required prior to issuance of the building permits.

         b.   Minor Changes

         The PDSD Director may approve minor changes from the approved building or site plan without processing the plan through the entire review process. Determination as to whether the change is minor or major is made by the PDSD Director on a case-by-case basis. Changes in site design include, but are not limited to, minor changes to building height , density , land use , parking, and traffic circulation.

         c.   Major Changes

         Major changes from the approved building or site plan require review and approval by the PDSD Director and affected review agencies. If the building or site plan is required as a special requirement imposed by the Mayor and Council as a condition of rezoning or special exception approval, a major change requires approval by the Mayor and Council prior to review of the revised plan.

         d.   Change From, or Expiration of, an Approved Site Plan

         Building permit applications must be accompanied by a copy of an amended site plan bearing the approval of the PDSD Director for construction that is not consistent with the approved site plan or for which the initial approval has expired.

   H.   Zoning Compliance for Site Improvements in Existence on May 1, 2005

   This section encourages the re-use of and re-investment in older, nonconforming uses and buildings , and facilitates the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) or a Certificate of Zoning Compliance for a non-legally permitted use or building . The owner of property, at the time of a request for a certificate of occupancy or certificate of zoning compliance may concurrently request that site  improvements , including outdoor activity areas, in existence as of May 1, 2005 (“existing site  improvements ”) be granted zoning compliance subject to the following.

      1.   This section only applies to developed property with nonresidential zoning that is not subject to any of the Overlay Zones in Sections 5.2 (Hillside Development Zone), 5.3 (Scenic Corridor Zone), 5.6 (Airport Environs Zone), 5.7 (Environmental Resource Zone), 5.8 (Historic Preservation Zone) , 5.9 (Drachman School Overlay), 5.10 (Neighborhood Preservation Zone), 5.11 (Rio Nuevo District), or any change of zoning (rezoning), variance, or special exception approved subject to conditions, or the subject of an unabated zoning violation .

      2.   Existing site  improvements are determined by referring to May 2005 aerial photography administered by the Pima Association of Governments (PAG) and available on the PAG and PDSD websites.

      3.   Existing site  improvements are not subject to compliance with the following:

         a.   Access, Section 7.8;

         b.   Accessory Uses , Buildings , and Structures, Section 6.6;

         c.   Dimensional standards as provided in Tables 6.3-1 through 7 in Article 6;

         d.   Height, Section 6.4.4;

         e.   Landscaping and Screening, Section 7.6;

         f.   Lot Coverage, Section 6.4.3;

         g.   Motor Vehicle and Bicycle Parking, Section 7.4;

         h.   Native Plant Preservation, Section 7.7;

         i.   Off-Street Loading, Section 7.5; and,

         j.   Perimeter Yards, Section 6.4.5.

      4.   Properties granted zoning compliance under the provisions of this section may be used for all principal permitted land uses based on the zoning of the site subject to the applicable general restrictions in each zone , except for the following prohibited uses:

         a.   Alcoholic Beverage Service uses unless continuously licensed through the Arizona Department of Liquor Licenses and Control from May 1, 2005, to the present, Section 11.3.4.B;

         b.   Billboard, Section 11.3.4.F;

         c.   Correctional Use, Section 11.3.3.C;

         d.   Family Dwelling, Section 11.3.7.A;

         e.   Food Service uses unless continuously licensed through the Pima County Health Department from May 1, 2005, to the present, Section 11.3.4.N;

         f.   Group Dwelling, Section 11.3.7.B;

         g.   Mobile Home Dwelling, Section 11.3.7.C;

         h.   Residential Care Services, Section 11.3.7.D;

         i.   Restricted Adult Activities Use Group, Section 11.3.8;

         j.   In the C-2 and C-3 Districts, Medical Marijuana Designated Caregiver Cultivation Location, Medical Marijuana Dispensary, Medical Marijuana Dispensary Off-site Cultivation Location; and,

         k.   In the I-1 and I-2 Districts, Medical Marijuana Designated Caregiver Cultivation Location, Medical Marijuana Dispensary Off-site Cultivation Location.

      5.   Required drop-off areas must be provided.

      6.   Use of the property must be in compliance with all applicable use-specific standards in Section 4.9.

      7.   This section is applied to single or multiple parcels of land but may not be applied to partial parcels .

      8.   Changes to parking lot striping, maintaining the same number of parking spaces, or increasing the number of parking spaces, are permitted in compliance with Section 7.4.6 (Motor Vehicle Use Area Design Criteria) so long as no existing elements such as loading zones or dumpsters are deleted except as permitted under current standards.

      9.   The owner of the property shall:

         a.   Submit a sworn affidavit that the use of the property will be in compliance with the section; or,

         b.   Include the following in any lease/rental agreement for the property: “Tenant shall not cause or permit the Property to be used in any way which constitutes a violation of any law, ordinance, or governmental regulation. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of this lease agreement, any occupancy or use of the premises in violation of this paragraph constitutes a material breach of this lease agreement entitling Lessor to invoke all remedies provided hereunder including termination.”

      10.   A site inspection to verify that the use of the property is in compliance with this Section may be conducted at the discretion of the PDSD Director .

      11.   Applications are reviewed in accordance with the PDSD Director approval procedure, Section 3.3.3.

      12.   Zoning compliance granted pursuant to this section shall be valid only so long as the property and site  improvements thereon remain in the same condition as on the date the zoning compliance is granted. Any subsequent development or modification to the property or site  improvements will render zoning compliance under this section void and of no effect. Any modification or improvement not shown on May 2005 aerial photography administered by the Pima Association of Governments (PAG) will be considered a subsequent development of the property.

      13.   Requests for zoning compliance pursuant to this section must be submitted to the PDSD, and all applicable fees must be paid, prior to the expiration date of the ordinance adopting this Section 3.3.4.G, as provided herein.

(Ord. 11070, 5/14/2013; Am. Ord. 11201, 9/23/2014; Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020; Am. Ord. 11922, 7/12/2022)

##### 3.3.4.   100' NOTICE PROCEDURE

   A.   Purpose

   Proposed development that involves minor modifications including increases to food producing animals , small deviations to design criteria, or minor construction subject to design review shall comply with the following general procedures. This procedure is intended to provide notice to parties who may be affected by the development .

   B.   Applicability

   The 100' Notice Procedure applies to the following applications:

      1.   Approval of resident artisan uses in the Historic Preservation Zone ;

      2.   Certain wireless facilities;

      3.   Design Development Options (DDO) in accordance with Section 3.11.1;

      4.   Parking Design Modification Requests to the required number of bicycle and motor vehicle parking spaces ;

      5.   PDSD Director Special Exception applications;

      6.   Requests for demolition of contributing, non-historic structures in Historic Preservation Zones ;

      7.   Requests to increase the permitted number of food producing animals or decrease the setback for a food producing animal  shelter at a community garden , an urban farm, or a residential property; and,

      8.   Other types of applications if the PDSD Director makes one of the following findings:

         a.   There is a minor change in the development criteria that is requested;

         b.   There are few, if any, changes in the physical attributes of the property;

         c.   There is a potential for impact upon the neighborhood or the adjacent properties;

         d.   Where there are commercial and office developments , (1) through (3) above apply and there is a benefit to area properties from the proposed redevelopment of the property; or,

         e.   There is an administrative Special Exception Land Use designated in the UDC related to the proposed development .

   C.   Pre-Application Conference Recommended

   A pre-application conference with City staff is recommended, but not required. See Section 3.2.1 for details on the pre-application conference.

   D.   Neighborhood Meeting Recommended

   The applicant is recommended, but not required, to conduct a neighborhood meeting with surrounding property owners and neighborhood association representatives.

   E.   Application and Notice of Application Required

   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. See the Administrative Manual for application submittal requirements. Applications shall be reviewed for completeness in compliance with Section 3.2.3.A, Application Required. Following acceptance by the PDSD, notice of the application is required in accordance with Section 3.2.4.B, Mailed Notices.

   F.   Public Comment Period

   For ten days following the date on which notice is provided, the public may submit comments on the proposal to the PDSD.

   G.   Review

   Review is conducted by the PDSD staff and other agencies, committees or advisory boards as required by the UDC , and others as may be deemed appropriate by the PDSD Director .

   H.   Decision and Notice of Decision

   The PDSD Director shall approve or deny an application and send written notice of the decision in accordance with Section 3.2.4.B. The PDSD Director may impose conditions for approval of the application or may require further processing of the application in accordance with Section 3.3.5, 400' Notice Procedure.

   I.   Appeals

   A party of record may appeal the PDSD Director ’s decision to the Board of Adjustment (B/A). Appeals must be filed in accordance with Section 3.10.1 and .2\. A notice of intent to appeal must be received by the PDSD within five days of the effective date of the decision. The complete appeal materials must be filed within 30 days of the effective date of the decision.

   J.   Waiver of Comment, Notice of the Decision and Right to Appeal

   The required time period for public comment, for notice of the decision, and for the filing of an appeal may be waived, if the applicant provides written documentation that all parties of record have waived one or more of these provisions.

(Am. Ord. 11328, 12/8/2015; Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020)

##### 3.3.5.   400' NOTICE PROCEDURE

   A.   Purpose

   The purpose of this procedure is to require notice to parties who may be affected by the development .

   B.   Applicability

   The 400' Notice Procedure applies to the following applications:

      1.   Mitigation plans for restaurants that are located within 300 feet of R-3 or more restrictive  zoning district and that serve alcohol;

      2.   Projects within the Greater Infill Incentive Subdistrict of the Downtown Area Infill Incentive District requesting a Modification of Development Regulations; and,

      3.   Individual Parking Plans for projects within 400 feet of R-3 or more restrictive  zoning districts or Historic Preservation Zones.

   C.   Pre-Application Conference Required

   A pre-application conference with City staff is required in accordance with Section 3.2.1.

   D.   Neighborhood Meeting Required

   The applicant is required to conduct a neighborhood meeting and shall provide notice of the neighborhood meeting in accordance with Section 3.2.2.C.

   E.   Application and Notice of Application Required

   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. See the Administrative Manual for application submittal requirements. Applications are reviewed for completeness in compliance with Section 3.2.3.A. Following acceptance by the PDSD, notice of the application is required in accordance with Section 3.2.4.B.

   F.   Public Comment Period

   For 20 days following the date on which notice is mailed, the public may submit comments on the proposal to the PDSD.

   G.   Review

   Review is conducted by the PDSD staff and other agencies, committees or advisory boards as required by the UDC , and others as may be deemed appropriate by the PDSD Director .

   H.   Decision and Notice of Decision

   The PDSD Director shall approve or deny an application and send written notice of the decision in accordance with Section 3.2.4.B.

   I.   Appeals

      1.   The PDSD Director ’s decision may be appealed to the Mayor and Council on the grounds that the decision is not in conformance with the criteria established by the UDC ;

      2.   Appeals are processed in accordance with Section 3.9.2, Mayor and Council Appeal Procedure;

      3.   The notice of intent to appeal must be filed with the City Clerk no later than 14 days after the effective date of the decision;

      4.   The complete appeal materials must be filed with the City Clerk within 30 days of the effective date of the decision; and,

      5.   A copy of the appeal is provided to the PDSD Director at the time it is filed.

   J.   Site Inspection

   Prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit, the site shall be inspected by the PDSD for compliance with the plans approved for the issuance of building permits and any changes authorized by the PDSD Director to those approved plans during construction.

(Am. Ord. 11201, 9/23/2014; Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020; Am. Ord. 11922, 7/12/2022)

##### 3.3.6.   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR APPROVAL PROCEDURE

   The following applications shall be processed in accordance with the Zoning Administrator approval procedure provided in Section 1.5.1 (Zoning Interpretations and Zoning Certifications):

   A.   Compliance with certification of existing premises;

   B.   Interpretations of the Unified Development Code ;

   C.   Planned area development interpretation; and,

   D.   Zone boundary conflicts.

##### 3.3.7.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION ZONE (HPZ) DESIGN REVIEW PROCEDURE

   Applications for projects within an HPZ are processed in accordance with Section 5.8.8, Design Review Required.

##### 3.3.8.   NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION ZONE (NPZ) DESIGN REVIEW PROCEDURE

   Applications for applicable projects within an NPZ are processed in accordance with Section 5.10.3, NPZ Design Review Procedure.

##### 3.3.9.   \[RESERVED\]

(Rep. Ord. 11246, 2/18/2015)

