#### 3.6.   LAND USE PLAN ADOPTION AND AMENDMENT PROCEDURES

##### 3.6.1.   PURPOSE

   This section establishes a public process Land Use Plan adoption and amendment.

##### 3.6.2.   APPLICABILITY

   The following applications are processed in accordance with the requirements of this section:

   A.   Re-adoption of or amendment to the General Plan ;

   B.   Adoption of or amendment to specific plans , such as, but not limited to sub-regional, area, and neighborhood plans;

   C.   Adoption of or amendment to the Major Streets and Routes (MS&R) Plan ; and,

   D.   Adoption of or amendment to redevelopment plans.

##### 3.6.3.   INITIATION

   A.   General Plan

   The re-adoption of the General Plan may only be initiated by the Mayor and Council. Amendments to the adopted General Plan may be initiated by the Mayor and Council or privately initiated by the owner of the property for which the amendment is sought. Notice of initiation must be provided in conformance with A.R.S. §9-461.06.

   B.   Redevelopment Plans

   Prior to initiating the creation of a redevelopment plan, the Mayor and Council must approve a resolution declaring that the subject area is subject to redevelopment in accordance with A.R.S. §36-1479. Amendments to an adopted redevelopment plan may be initiated by the Mayor and Council or privately initiated by the owner of the property for which a plan amendment is sought.

   C.   Specific and MS&R Plans

   The creation of a specific plan shall only be initiated by the Mayor and Council. Amendments to a specific plan or the MS&R Plan may be initiated by the Mayor and Council or privately initiated by the owner of property for which an amendment is sought.

##### 3.6.4.   PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE REQUIRED

   For site specific, privately initiated plan amendments , a pre-application conference with City staff is required to review requirements for the proposal in accordance with Section 3.2.1 and other applicable policies and regulations.

##### 3.6.5.   PUBLIC OUTREACH AND NEIGHBORHOOD MEETINGS

   A.   Re-Adoption of the General Plan

   Public outreach for the re-adoption of the General Plan shall be conducted in accordance with state statute and adopted City policies.

   B.   Plan Amendments

      1.   A neighborhood meeting in accordance with Section 3.2.2 is required for privately initiated, site specific plan amendments . Mailed notice of the neighborhood meeting in accordance with Section 3.2.2 and 3.2.4 is required. Exception: A neighborhood meeting is not required for City -initiated amendments to the General Plan .

      2.   For Concurrent Plan Amendment and Rezoning Applications, a representative of PDSD staff shall attend the Neighborhood Meeting to provide an overview of the Concurrent Plan Amendment and Rezoning process and the area and/or neighborhood plans affected.

      3.   Exception: A neighborhood meeting is not required for City -initiated amendments to the General Plan .

(Am. Ord. 11729, 2/19/2020)

##### 3.6.6.   APPLICATION

   A.   Applicants of privately-initiated plan amendments requests are required to submit an application to the PDSD. See the Administrative Manual for the plan amendment application submittal requirements. Applications are reviewed for completeness in accordance with Section 3.2.3.A.

   B.   Applications must be in conformance with the General Plan , applicable specific plans , the UDC , other pertinent codes and regulations.

   C.   Applications for an amendment to a specific plan within two years of the date of adoption of the specific plan may not be processed unless the Mayor and Council consent to the application.

##### 3.6.7.   STAFF REVIEW AND RECOMMENDATION

   City staff shall review each application to determine, to the extent applicable, compliance with the General Plan , specific plans , the UDC , and any other code or regulation that may pertain to the application. When appropriate, City staff may request comments from other agencies, committees or advisory boards. Staff shall prepare and submit a report and recommendation to the Planning Commission and shall make copies available to the public prior to the public hearing.

##### 3.6.8.   PLANNING COMMISSION PUBLIC HEARING REQUIRED

   A.   Study Session

   The Planning Commission may conduct a study session to determine the merits of a proposed amendment. The Planning Commission may remand an amendment to the PDSD for further development or set it for public hearing.

   B.   Public Hearing

   At least one public hearing before the Planning Commission on the request is required. Exception: For the re-adoption of or a major amendment to the General Plan , at least two Planning Commission public hearings, each at a different location in the City are required. Additional consultation and public notice in accordance with A.R.S. §9-461.06 are required.

   C.   Mailed and Published Notice

   For site -site specific plan amendments , mailed notice must be mailed to all property owners within 400 feet of the subject property. Mailed and published notice of the public hearing(s) is required in accordance with Sections 3.2.4.B and E, respectively.

(Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020)

##### 3.6.9.   PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION AND RECONSIDERATION

   A.   General

      1.   Except for redevelopment plans, the Planning Commission may close a public hearing or may decide to continue a public hearing to a future time and place provided the hearing is closed and a recommendation, including a statement of the reasons for the recommendation, is issued within 180 days of the date of the initial hearing. The PDSD shall transmit to the Mayor and Council the application, Planning Commission’s recommendation and findings or other action of the Planning Commission, and the City Manager’s recommendation.

      2.   If the Planning Commission fails to issue a recommendation within the prescribed time, the application will be forwarded to the Mayor and Council for a decision together with a statement of the reasons for the positions taken by members of the Planning Commission.

   B.   Redevelopment Plans

   For redevelopment plans, the Planning Commission reviews the plan for compliance with the General Plan and any applicable specific plan at a public meeting or a public hearing. The Planning Commission shall forward a recommendation to Mayor and Council within 30 days from the date of its receipt of the plans for review. If no recommendation is forwarded within 30 days , the Mayor and Council may proceed with the public hearing on the redevelopment plan.

   C.   Reconsideration

   The Planning Commission may, by majority vote of all members, choose to reconsider a decision made on a plan amendment , provided the vote to reconsider is made within 30 days of the date of the original decision. Reconsideration may not take place earlier than 14 days from the date of the original decision, unless reconsideration occurs at the same meeting as the original decision. If the reconsideration occurs at a different meeting, all persons noticed for the public hearing before the Planning Commission must be notified prior to the reconsideration. This notification shall include the time, date, and location of the reconsideration. If the Planning Commission’s decision is not reconsidered within the specified time period and the decision was to deny, the case shall be closed administratively. If, after reconsideration, the decision is to reaffirm a denial, the case shall be closed administratively immediately after the reconsideration.

##### 3.6.10.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL’S PUBLIC HEARING AND DECISION

   A.   Public Hearing

      1.   The Mayor and Council shall hold a public hearing prior to making a decision. The notice for the public hearing before the Mayor and Council shall be the same as the notice before the Planning Commission except for redevelopment plans.

      2.   For redevelopment plans, notice must be published once each week for two consecutive weeks, the last publication to be at least ten days before the date set for the hearing.

   B.   Decision

      1.   The Mayor and Council may adopt, deny, continue the item, or remand the item to the Planning Commission. The Mayor and Council shall consider the application, the Planning Commission’s recommendation and the City Manager’s recommendation, and public comments when making their decision.

      2.   Adoption and re-adoption of an amendment to the General Plan shall be in conformance with A.R.S. §9-461.06(G) and (K) and other applicable provisions.

   C.   Reconsideration by Mayor and Council

   The Mayor or a member of the Council may request the reconsideration of an authorization decision or a decision on a proposed ordinance provided the vote to reconsider is made at the original hearing or within 30 days of the date of the decision. A reconsideration shall be scheduled upon a majority vote in favor of the reconsideration. If the reconsideration occurs after the time when the decision is initially made, then public notice of the reconsideration must be given in the same manner as for the initial decision.

##### 3.6.11.   RE-APPLICATION

   New plan amendment applications may not be accepted for any property that had a previous application acted upon by the Mayor and Council within one year of the date of that action, except as follows:

   A.   The application does not involve a request for a plan designation that was denied;

   B.   There has been substantial change in the use of the property adjacent to the plan amendment  site since the previous case was heard; or,

   C.   There has been an ownership change on the plan amendment  site and a substantially modified development concept is presented.

