#### 4.11.   TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING

   Certain land uses or buildings not permitted within specific zones may be permitted on a temporary basis if authorized in accordance with Section 3.3.3, PDSD Director Approval Procedure, provided such request for a temporary use complies with the following.

##### 4.11.1.   QUALIFICATION FOR PERMIT

   For certain land uses or buildings to be permitted on a temporary basis, the land use or building shall comply with one or more of the following special circumstances.

   A.   The circumstances constitute a substantial hardship, such as, but not limited to, a natural disaster, e.g., fire or flood, or a government action that has resulted in damage to an existing building on the subject property.

   B.   A temporary building , such as a mobile or modular unit, utilized for the management or oversight of construction (e.g., contractor’s office) or occupied as a caretaker’s facility or a home for the eventual resident may be permitted during the construction of a permanent building . The temporary building shall be on the same site as the construction.

   C.   The temporary location of off-street parking facilities during the structural expansion or remodeling of an existing building may be permitted. Such temporary facilities do not have to comply with requirements of a permanent parking facility but shall, at a minimum, provide the following:

      1.   Screening from adjacent residential development . Since this is a temporary facility, screening cannot be achieved by the use of landscaping unless mature vegetation that can act as the screen exists on the site ; and,

      2.   Dust-proofing.

   D.   A temporary real estate office may be permitted during construction of a project , provided:

      1.   The temporary use shall be terminated one year from the date the approval was granted. Additional 12-month extensions may be granted, provided sales activity for the project continues and 10% or more of the lots or units remain unsold;

      2.   The temporary office building is located on a lot and complies with all zoning standards applicable to that lot ;

      3.   The temporary office building is located in the same subdivision within which sales occur; and,

      4.   The temporary use or building complies with any additional conditions required by the approval authority.

   E.   A temporary construction equipment yard for public improvement projects involving street  improvements or the placement of utilities within public rights-of-way , provided solutions are implemented to mitigate potential negative impacts to adjacent residential development . Such solutions include, but are not limited to, screening of equipment, setbacks , hours of operation, and limited or restricted use of residential streets .

   F.   The temporary placement of a mobile telecommunications tower facility on nonresidential property may be permitted upon the demonstration by a telecommunications provider that the facility is necessary for its operations; the facility is setback from any residentially zoned property by a distance equal to the height of the proposed tower and base; and the tower and base do not exceed 65 feet from the existing grade . The temporary use authorized by this subsection shall be approved for a period not to exceed 60 days and may be approved for one extension of time not to exceed 60 days .

##### 4.11.2.   BOND REQUIRED

   A cash or assurance bond in the amount of $1,000 for a residential use and $5,000 for a nonresidential use is required, unless stipulated otherwise in the qualification standards in Section 4.11.1, Qualification for Permit, to guarantee termination of the temporary use. The cash or assurance bond shall be provided to the City before any permit for the use is issued.

##### 4.11.3.   REFUND

   The bond, as required in Section 4.11.2, Bond Required, shall be refunded when the temporary use or building is removed by the applicant in accordance with Section 4.11.4, Removal.

##### 4.11.4.   REMOVAL

   The temporary use or building shall be removed on or before the date of expiration of the approval period. Should the zoning compliance certificate be revoked, a temporary use shall be removed within 15 days .

   A.   Removal is to include all improvements installed to accommodate the temporary use or building .

   B.   If, after the removal, the property is left graded and vacant, the property shall be reseeded in accordance with the requirements of the grading ordinance for graded but undeveloped properties.

##### 4.11.5.   FORFEITURE

   If the temporary use or building is not removed or the site does not achieve compliance, the bond required by Section 4.11.2, Bond Required, shall be forfeited.

##### 4.11.6.   TIME LIMIT

   Approval for a temporary use or building may be granted for one year, with an additional one year period granted for good cause, unless otherwise stipulated in the temporary use or building qualification standards in Section 4.11.1, Qualification for Permit.

ARTICLE 5: OVERLAY ZONES
------------------------

Section

5.1.   PURPOSE OF OVERLAY ZONES

5.2.   HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT ZONE (HDZ)

   5.2.1.   Introduction

   5.2.2.   Purpose

   5.2.3.   Applicability

   5.2.4.   Permitted Uses

   5.2.5.   Development Standards

   5.2.6.   Natural Areas

   5.2.7.   Hillside Site Improvement Standard

   5.2.8.   Maintenance and Protection

   5.2.9.   Enforcement

   5.2.10.   Variances

5.3.   SCENIC CORRIDOR ZONE (SCZ)

   5.3.1.   Introduction

   5.3.2.   Purpose

   5.3.3.   Applicability

   5.3.4.   Scenic Route Buffer Area

   5.3.5.   Structure Height

   5.3.6.   Siting and View Corridors

   5.3.7.   Parking Areas

   5.3.8.   Screening

   5.3.9.   Utilities

   5.3.10.   Additional Design Considerations

   5.3.11.   Review and Approval Procedure

   5.3.12.   Submittals

   5.3.13.   Grading

   5.3.14.   Variances

   5.3.15.   Designation, amendment, or change of boundaries for a Scenic Corridor Zone

5.4.   MAJOR STREET AND ROUTES  SETBACK  ZONE (MS&R)

   5.4.1.   Purpose

   5.4.2.   Applicability

   5.4.3.   MS&R Adoption and Amendment

   5.4.4.   Establishment of MS&R Right-of-Way Lines and Gateway Routes

   5.4.5.   Permitted Use of MS&R Right-of-Way Area

   5.4.6.   MS&R Street  Perimeter Yard and Parking Adjustment

   5.4.7.   MS&R Right-of-Way Use Modification Request

5.5.   GATEWAY CORRIDOR ZONE (GCZ)

   5.5.1.   Purpose

   5.5.2.   Applicability

   5.5.3.   Review and Approval Procedure

   5.5.4.   Development Standards

   5.5.5.   Designation, amendment, or change of boundaries

   5.5.6.   Variances

5.6.   AIRPORT ENVIRONS ZONE (AEZ)

   5.6.1.   Purpose

   5.6.2.   Establishment, Designation, and Amendment of AEZ Maps

   5.6.3.   Applicability in the TIA Environs

   5.6.4.   TIA Environs

   5.6.5.   Compatible Use Zones for the TIA Environs

   5.6.6.   Noise Control Districts

   5.6.7.   Applicability in the DMAFB Environs

   5.6.8.   Approach Departure Corridors (ADC) for DMAFB

   5.6.9.   Noise Control District for DMAFB Environs

   5.6.10.   Special Exception Land Uses

   5.6.11.   Airport Hazard Districts for TIA and DMAFB Environs

5.7.   ENVIRONMENTAL RESOURCE ZONE (ERZ)

   5.7.1.   Purpose

   5.7.2.   Applicability

   5.7.3.   Development Options

   5.7.4.   Development Standards

   5.7.5.   Standards for Encroachment

   5.7.6.   Standards for Fences, Walls, and Exterior Lighting

   5.7.7.   Variances and Amendments

5.8.   “H” HISTORIC PRESERVATION ZONE (HPZ) AND “HL” HISTORIC LANDMARK (HL)

   5.8.1.   Purpose

   5.8.2.   Applicability

   5.8.3.   Standards for Establishing and Amending HPZs

   5.8.4.   Steps to Establish or Amend a HPZ

   5.8.5.   Standards for Establishing and Amending HLs

   5.8.6.   Steps to Establish or Amend a HL

   5.8.7.   Permitted Uses

   5.8.8.   Design Review Required

   5.8.9.   Design Standards

   5.8.10.   Demolition Review Required

   5.8.11.   Maintenance

   5.8.12.   Pending Historic Preservation Zones

5.9.   DRACHMAN SCHOOL OVERLAY ZONE (DSO)

   5.9.1.   Introduction

   5.9.2.   Purpose

   5.9.3.   Establishment

   5.9.4.   Applicability

   5.9.5.   Permitted Land Uses

   5.9.6.   Accessory Land Uses

   5.9.7.   Height and Setback Standards

   5.9.8.   Parking

   5.9.9.   Lighting

   5.9.10.   Landscaping

   5.9.11.   All Other Development Standards

   5.9.12.   Design Standards and Review

5.10.   NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION ZONE (NPZ)

   5.10.1.   Purpose

   5.10.2.   Establishing an NPZ

   5.10.3.   Neighborhood Preservation Zone (NPZ) Design Review Procedure

5.11.   COMMUNITY CORRIDORS TOOL (CCT)

   5.11.1.   Purpose

   5.11.2.   Applicability and Zoning Clarifications

   5.11.3.   Review and Approval Procedure

   5.11.4.   Permitted Uses

   5.11.5.   Dimensional Standards

   5.11.6.   Development Standards

   5.11.7.   Incentives

   5.11.8.   Large Scale Development Requirements

   5.11.9.   Modifications and Interpretations

   5.11.10.   Variances

   5.11.11.   Enforcement

   5.11.12.   Definitions

5.12.   DOWNTOWN AREA INFILL INCENTIVE DISTRICT (IID)

   5.12.1.   Purpose

   5.12.2.   Establishment

   5.12.3.   Definitions

   5.12.4.   Applicability

   5.12.5.   IID Plan Submittal Requirements

   5.12.6.   IID Plan Review and Approval Procedures Under the IID Zoning Option

   5.12.7.   Rio Nuevo Area (RNA) Zoning Design Standards

   5.12.8.   General IID Zoning Option Design Standards

   5.12.9.   Greater Infill Incentive Subdistrict (GIIS)

   5.12.10.   Downtown Core Subdistrict (DCS)

   5.12.11.   Downtown Links Subdistrict (DLS)

   5.12.12.   Toole Avenue Area (TAA)

   5.12.13.   Warehouse Triangle Area (WTA)

   5.12.14.   Fourth Avenue Area (FAA)

   5.12.15.   Iron Horse Area (IHA)

   5.12.16.   Stone/Sixth Area (SSA)

   5.12.17.   \[Reserved\]

   5.12.18.   Illustrative Map

5.13.   URBAN OVERLAY DISTRICT (UOD)

   5.13.1.   Purpose

   5.13.2.   Initiation

   5.13.3.   Establishment

   5.13.4.   Development Standards

   5.13.5.   Application

   5.13.6.   Development Review

   5.13.7.   Enforcement

   5.13.8.   Interpretation

   5.13.9.   Amendment Procedures

   5.13.10.   Waiver

