#### 4.3.   CATEGORIES OF LAND USES

   There are four categories of land uses : permitted, special exception, accessory, and temporary.

##### 4.3.1.   PERMITTED LAND USE

   A.   For the purposes of this article, a permitted land use refers to a principal use that is permitted within a particular zone subject to compliance with all applicable use-specific standards and other regulations as described below and typically does not require legislative action for approval. A principal use is the main use to which the premises is devoted and the primary purpose for which the premises exist.

   B.   The principal permitted land uses within each zone are identified in Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7.

   C.   Principal permitted land uses are subject to the following when applicable:

      1.   UDC regulations and standards, including, but not limited to, the zone ’s exceptions and general restrictions provided in Section 4.9.13, the use specific standards provided in Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7, Article 5: Overlay Zones, Article 6: Dimensional Standards and Measurements, and Article 7: Development Standards;

      2.   Application submittal requirements and fees provided in the Administrative Manual; and,

      3.   Standards provided in the Technical Standards Manual.

##### 4.3.2.   SPECIAL EXCEPTION LAND USES

   A.   Special exception land uses are typically principal uses which are not allowed by right within a zone but are permitted if approved through a particular review procedure. In several instances as identified in the permitted use tables (Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7), certain accessory uses require approval through one of the special exception review procedures.

   B.   The special exception land uses permitted within each zone and their applicable review procedure are identified in Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7.

   C.   Special exception land uses are subject to the following when applicable:

      1.   UDC regulations and standards, including, but not limited to, the zone ’s exceptions and general restrictions provided in Section 4.9.13, the use specific standards provided in Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7, Article 5: Overlay Zones, Article 6: Dimensional Standards and Measurements, and Article 7: Development Standards;

      2.   Conditions that may be imposed as part of the use’s approval;

      3.   Requirements provided in the Administrative Manual; and,

      4.   Standards provided in the Technical Standards Manual.

##### 4.3.3.   ACCESSORY LAND USES

   A.   Accessory land uses are those uses and structures associated with, and incidental to, a principal land use and may be necessary for the operation of the principal land use . Examples of accessory uses include: residences with guest houses, restaurants with bars, and churches with a columbarium.

   B.   The permitted accessory land uses with use-specific standards are identified in Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7. Accessory land uses other than those provided in the tables may be permitted in accordance with Section 6.6, Accessory Uses , Buildings , and Structures.

   C.   Accessory uses are subject to the following when applicable:

      1.   UDC regulations and standards, including, but not limited to:

         a.   The accessory land use and building regulations provided in Section 6.6, Accessory Uses , Buildings , and Structures; and,

         b.   The use specific standards provided in Tables 4.8-1 through 4.8-7.

      2.   Application submittal requirements and fees provided in the Administrative Manual; and,

      3.   Standards provided in the Technical Standards Manual.

##### 4.3.4.   TEMPORARY LAND USE

   Temporary land uses are those land uses and structures that are needed or are in place for only short periods of time. The regulations governing temporary land uses are provided in Section 4.11, Temporary Use or Building.

