#### 5.13.   URBAN OVERLAY DISTRICT (UOD)

##### 5.13.1. PURPOSE

   The purpose of the Urban Overlay District (UOD) is to encourage:

   A.   Comprehensively planned, pedestrian and transit-oriented, urban infill, and mixed use areas;

   B.   Site planning and architectural solutions consistent with the ambience of Tucson;

   C.   Safe urban neighborhoods;

   D.   Urban design features that include sustainable solutions and can accommodate both historical and contemporary design;

   E.   Transitions that are beneficial to new and existing developments ; and,

   F.   Responsive development review processes that address flexible solutions for obsolete standards and accommodate desired urban trends.

##### 5.13.2.    INITIATION

   A.   An Urban Overlay District is initiated by the Mayor and Council.

   B.   The Planning and Development Services Department (PDSD) processes the application. The UOD boundaries may include rights-of-way within and adjacent to the proposed UOD.

##### 5.13.3.    ESTABLISHMENT

   A.   The overlay is established in accordance with Section 3.5, Rezoning (Change of Zoning) Procedure. Subsequent rezoning shall require Mayor and Council approval and adoption of a rezoning ordinance for an affected area.

   B.   Each UOD shall be in compliance with the adopted General Plan and applicable sub-regional, area, and neighborhood plans.

   C.   Upon establishment, the UOD shall be identified on the City Zoning Map as a shaded area. When the UOD is effectuated on a specific property(ies), the prefix “U” followed by a sequential number and the assigned zoning designation, e.g., C-3 becomes U1C-3, shall be identified on the City Zoning Map . The UOD may also be given a descriptive name associated with the subject area, e.g., Downtown District.

##### 5.13.4. DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

   A.   The UOD may have land use standards and procedures different from the zoning standards applicable in another UOD or in the Unified Development Code (UDC).

   B.   Adoption of a UOD shall not restrict or eliminate the uses or development standards of any underlying zone but provides a development option that encourages well-designed infill projects subject to the standards and guidelines provided in the UOD’s development document.

   C.   The UOD development document shall be adopted as part of the rezoning and govern development using the UOD development options instead of the standards of the underlying zone .

(Am. Ord. 11171, 5/20/2014)

##### 5.13.5.    APPLICATION

   The applicant shall provide a development document that includes proposed standards, modifications, maps, guidelines, and background materials sufficient to implement the proposed UOD. In addition, the Mayor and Council may require the development document to include a site analysis as provided in Section 2-04.4.2, Site Analysis (Planned Area Developmen t), of the Administrative Manual where necessary or desirable to review UOD proposals such as form-based code districts or similar concepts.

##### 5.13.6. DEVELOPMENT REVIEW

   A.   Unless a specific waiver procedure is approved as part of the rezoning, no development using the UOD standards shall occur within a UOD unless or until a site plan or if applicable a subdivision  plat is approved by the City .

   B.   The City may require financial and other assurances to assure the installation of required streets , sewer, electric, and water utilities , drainage, flood control and other improvements of a property owner using the UOD standards.

##### 5.13.7.    ENFORCEMENT

   Standards adopted for each UOD are enforced in the same manner as provided in Art. 10: Enforcement and Penalties.

##### 5.13.8.    INTERPRETATION

   The Zoning Administrator shall interpret a UOD.

##### 5.13.9.    AMENDMENT PROCEDURES

   A.   The PDSD shall determine if the amendment would result in a substantial change in the UOD. An amendment shall be determined to be a substantial change in accordance with the standards set forth in Section 3.5.5, Amendment to a an Adopted PAD Zone, or may be determined to be a special procedure contained in the UOD’s development or urban design documents.

(Am. Ord. 11409, 11/9/2016)

##### 5.13.10. WAIVER

   Execution of a waiver is required for any property owner using the urban design option of a UOD, in conformance with A.R.S. §12-1134(1). The owner of property requesting to exercise the UOD design option shall be required to waive any and all claims for diminution of value that may be based upon action by the City in response to such a request by the owner.

ARTICLE 6: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND MEASUREMENTS
-------------------------------------------------

Section

6.1.   PURPOSE

6.2.   APPLICABILITY

6.3.   DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS

   6.3.1.   Organization

   6.3.2.   Determining a Use’s Dimensional Standards

   6.3.3.   Explanation and Applicability of Terms Used in the Dimensional Standard Tables

   6.3.4.   Dimensional Standard and Exceptions Tables

6.4.   RULES OF MEASUREMENT AND EXCEPTIONS TO DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS

   6.4.1.   Purpose

   6.4.2.   Lot Size

   6.4.3.   Lot Coverage and Site Coverage

   6.4.4.   Height

   6.4.5.   Perimeter Yards

   6.4.6.   Floor Area Ratio

   6.4.7.   Residential Density

6.5.   PRINCIPAL LAND USE

   6.5.1.   One or More Principal Uses , Separate Projects

   6.5.2.   Two or More Principal Uses , Same Project

6.6.   ACCESSORY USES , BUILDINGS , AND STRUCTURES

   6.6.1.   Accessory Uses

   6.6.2.   Accessory Buildings And Structures

   6.6.3.   Residential Uses

   6.6.4.   Nonresidential Uses

   6.6.5   Urban Agriculture Uses and Activities

