#### 5.5.   GATEWAY CORRIDOR ZONE (GCZ)

##### 5.5.1.   PURPOSE

   The purpose of this overlay zone is to implement policies in the City ’s General Plan , the Regional Transportation Plan, and the Air Quality Plan, with specific emphasis on the Major Streets and Routes (MS&R) Plan . The MS&R Plan  projects the future arterial and collector street needs of the community and is a tool to implement the development of a safe and efficient street system and the design of all land uses serviced by that system, while assuring the economic viability of new and expanding land uses and the continued economic stability of the community. These goals are achieved by providing for the visual improvement of major streets and routes designated as Gateway Routes by implementing standards for the design and landscaping of the roadway and adjacent  development , thereby providing:

   A.   A favorable visual impression of Tucson to tourists and visitors at entry points to the City and on routes leading to major recreation attractions;

   B.   Enhancement of the built environment along routes of important commercial development ;

   C.   Incentives for private investment and economic development by providing an attractive streetscape;

   D.   Aesthetic buffering through the implementation of screening or siting of developmental elements that are incompatible with the urban character of adjacent uses;

   E.   The improvement and use of the pedestrian environment along major transit routes; and,

   F.   Some measure of air quality control by requiring landscaping with live vegetation to assist in purifying the air of carbon dioxide through oxygenation and dilution.

##### 5.5.2.   APPLICABILITY

   The GCZ standards apply to the following uses on all property, any portion of which abuts or is adjacent to a street designated on the City ’s or county ’s MS&R Plan :

   A.   New structures ;

   B.   Changes of use, including new structures occurring on vacant land; or,

   C.   Uses of land or structures legally existing as of June 27, 1988, that are expanded in floor area , lot coverage , parking, seating capacity, or any other expansion of use, as listed below. Exception. Expansion of off-street parking for a nonconforming existing use that increases the number of spaces to the minimum required by the UDC for that use is exempt from counting toward the 25% expansion.

      1.   If the expansion is less than 25%, the GCZ applies to the proposed expansion. The remainder of the use or structure shall be governed by provisions in force at the time of initial approval for the use or structure;

      2.   If the expansion is 25% or more, the GCZ applies to the proposed expansion and to the parking and landscaping standards that apply to the overall development ; or,

      3.   Expansions that occur after June 27, 1988, shall be cumulated in determining the 25% expansion.

   D.   When one or more of the standards of the MS&R setback  zone , the Gateway Route , or the Scenic Corridor Zone (SCZ) apply to the same street , the most restrictive standards apply.

   E.   At street intersections where a Scenic Route and Gateway Route intersect, development review and standards of the Gateway Route apply for 700 feet along the Scenic Route from each side of the intersection. The 700 feet shall be measured from the MS&R right-of-way line of the Gateway Route . This does not apply to Article 7A, Sign Standards.

   F.   The following are exempt from the application of the Gateway Route standard:

      1.   Utility facilities constructed or installed in accordance with a certificate of environmental compatibility issued prior to June 27, 1988, under the authority of A.R.S. Title 40, Chapter 2, Article 6.2;

      2.   Single-family  lot legally existing on June 27, 1988; or,

      3.   Development within the Downtown Redevelopment District .

   G.   Where widening of a Gateway Route is planned for construction within three years after the date of a building permit application, landscaping is not required to be implemented until the road project has been completed, provided the developer posts financial assurances to ensure compliance.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 5.5.3.   REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE

   Applications for projects within the GCZ are reviewed and considered for approval in accordance with Section 3.3.3, PDSD Director Approval Procedure.

   The City shall not issue any type of approval or construction permit, nor shall any improvement, construction, or alteration of a building or structure be allowed along a Gateway Route , until approval is granted.

##### 5.5.4.   DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS

   In addition to other applicable standards in other sections of the UDC , such as landscaping and screening, the following development standards are required of projects in the GCZ:

   A.   Signs

   Signs as permitted by Article 7A, Sign Standards, are allowed within the required landscaped area with the exception of billboards. Billboards are not permitted within 400 feet of the MS&R right-of-way line .

   B.   Utilities

      1.   New Utilities

         a.   New utilities for development on private and on public right-of-way along Gateway Routes shall be underground unless relief is otherwise granted pursuant to UDC sections 5.3.14, Variances or through a Zoning Examiner special exception process per section 4.9.11.A.12.

         b.   Existing poles shall be used to provide the required transition to underground service to new development  adjacent to Gateway Routes . When necessary to serve new development , a new pole set in line with, but not extending, an existing overhead system used to serve new development is not considered a new utility.

         c.   Upgrades and reinforcements of existing overhead facilities are allowed to the extent that the total number of electrical circuits or communication cables is not increased.

      2.   Existing Utilities

      Where an existing development is expanded in floor area or land area to any degree, new and existing utilities to all portions of the development shall be located underground unless relief is otherwise granted pursuant to UDC sections 5.3.14, Variances or through a Zoning Examiner special exception process per section 4.9.11.A.12. Additions to single-family dwellings are exempt from this provision. Additions to single-family dwellings are exempt from this provision.

      3.   Relocation of Utilities

      Relocation of overhead utility facilities required by public improvement districts along Gateway Routes shall conform with existing franchise requirements.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020; Am. Ord. 11942, 7/12/2022)

##### 5.5.5.   DESIGNATION, AMENDMENT, OR CHANGE OF BOUNDARIES

   Designation, amendment, or change of boundaries for a Gateway Route shall be established through the amendment to the designation on the MS&R Map in accordance with Section 5.4.3, MS&R Adoption and Amendment.

##### 5.5.6.   VARIANCES

   Variances to the Gateway Corridor Zone standards are processed in accordance with Sections 3.10.1 and 3.10.3, Board of Adjustment Variance Procedure. The Design Review Board shall review variance requests as provided in Section 2.2.6.C.6 and forward its recommendations to the Board of Adjustment.

