#### 7A.10.   SIGN TYPES AND GENERAL STANDARDS

This section describes the basic sign types that are either permitted or prohibited. A sign type that is not permitted in a zone , is prohibited unless otherwise designated by this article. Any specific regulation of a sign type for a specific zone supersedes the general requirement for the sign type. Standards in special districts supersede the regulations for the underlying zone or the general requirements for the sign type. All the above referenced districts, zones and provisions are superseded when the sign's area is regulated by Section 7A.7 Sign Design Options.

##### 7A.10.1.   GENERALLY PERMITTED SIGNS

   The signs contained in this section are permitted throughout the city , regardless of zone and sign  district , unless otherwise designated.

   A.   Emergency, warning, and governmental  signs necessary for public safety or civil defense or other governmental use. Signs shall be easily readable and if necessary illuminated.

   B.   Interior Signs

      1.   An Interior Sign is an on-site sign , emblem, or decal that is ground or wall -mounted providing information to the public such as wayfinding, facilities, services or prohibitions relating to the premises and which is inside a building , in a courtyard or hallway, or is within a premise's boundaries but is either not facing or is not readable from the public right-of-way , does not require zoning review but may require building code review.

      2.   Signs attached to the interior wall of a shopping mall for identification, advertisement or promotion of the interest of any person, entity, product or service are required to obtain a sign permit to ensure compliance with applicable building , fire, electrical, and technical codes but are not otherwise subject to the sign standards. For purposes of the sign standards these signs are considered interior signs.

      3.   Interior Sign Exception: A wall-mounted permanent or portable sign , or ground-mounted permanent or portable sign , that is within a premise's boundaries, outside a building or enclosed area, viewable from the public right-of-way , and has a sign area greater than twelve square feet, is counted as part of the applicable sign type's maximum sign area. All signs intended to be readable from the public right-of-way are counted as part of the applicable sign type's maximum sign area.

   C.   Vehicle Signs

      Signs mounted upon, painted upon, or otherwise erected on trucks, cars, boats, trailers, or other motorized vehicles or equipment are prohibited, except as specifically provided below. Vehicle signs are allowed only where all of the following conditions are met:

      1.   The primary purpose of such vehicle or equipment is not the display of signs ;

      2.   Signs are painted upon or applied directly to an integral part of the vehicle or equipment, do not extend beyond the horizontal or vertical profile of the vehicle, and are not mounted on the truck bed;

      3.   Vehicle/equipment is in operating condition, currently registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and actively used in the daily function of the business to which such signs relate;

      4.   Vehicles and equipment are not used primarily as static displays advertising a product or service, nor utilized as storage, shelter or distribution points for commercial products or services for the public; and,

      5.   During periods of inactivity exceeding five days , such vehicle/equipment are not so parked or placed that the signs thereon are displayed to the public. Vehicles and equipment engaged in active construction projects and on-premises storage of equipment and vehicles leased or rented to the general public by a business engaged in vehicle leasing shall not be subject to this condition.

   D.   Wall Signs , Multipurpose Facility

      1.   Notwithstanding any other limitations and restrictions set forth elsewhere in the sign  standards, a multipurpose facility is permitted to include as part of its wall signage one (1) or more light emitting diode (LED) or other electronic banners and/or video displays that may include continuously moving words and images. These components shall be used in ticketing areas and other pedestrian gatherings where, in the opinion of the City engineer, such signage will not create a traffic hazard and will not be visible or will be only incidentally visible from public rights-of-way or adjacent properties.

      2.   For purposes of this section, the term "multipurpose facility" has the meaning set forth in the definition found at A.R.S. § 48-4201.

   E.   Window signs are permitted in all zones where wall signs are permitted. No more than thirty percent of the total window surface may be covered. No permit is required. Window coverage is also regulated by Section 7-411of the Tucson City Code.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.10.2.   PERMANENT SIGNS

   A.   Permanent Signs - Zone Category Standards

TABLE 1 - ZONES CATEGORIES AND PERMANENT SIGN TYPES

Sign types below may be permitted in the zone categories below with additional standards.

Individual zones within a zone category or another specified zone may prohibit a sign type or have more restrictive standards for that individual zone .

Permanent Signs

Residential Category  
  
IR, RH, SR, SH, RX-1, RX-2, R-1, MH-1 zones

Multifamily Residential Category  
  
R-2, R-3, MH-2 zones

Non-residential Category  
  
O-1 zone

General Business Category  
  
O-2, O-3, P, RV, NC RVC, C-1, -2, -3, OCR-1, -2, MU, U zones

Industrial Category  
  
P-I, I-1, I-2 zones

TABLE 1 - ZONES CATEGORIES AND PERMANENT SIGN TYPES

Sign types below may be permitted in the zone categories below with additional standards.

Individual zones within a zone category or another specified zone may prohibit a sign type or have more restrictive standards for that individual zone .

Permanent Signs

Residential Category  
  
IR, RH, SR, SH, RX-1, RX-2, R-1, MH-1 zones

Multifamily Residential Category  
  
R-2, R-3, MH-2 zones

Non-residential Category  
  
O-1 zone

General Business Category  
  
O-2, O-3, P, RV, NC RVC, C-1, -2, -3, OCR-1, -2, MU, U zones

Industrial Category  
  
P-I, I-1, I-2 zones

Access Point

P, 2

P, 2

P

P

P

Awning

P, 1

P

P

P

P

Billboards  

5

5

5

P, 4, 5

P, 4, 5

Canopy

P, 7

P

P

P

Dwelling Unit

P

P

Freestanding Monument

P

P

P

P

Freestanding Monument low profile

P, 3

P

P

P

P

Freestanding Pole

P

P

Freeway

P

P

Parking Lot  

P

P

P

P

P

Projecting

P, 6

P, 6

P, 6

P, 6

P, 6

Wall

P, 3

P

P

P

P

P = Generally Permitted - See Section 7A.10.2.C for Additional Standards .

1\. Restricted to home occupation use in all zones except IR and MH-1

2\. Not permitted for home occupation use

3\. Restricted to nonresidential use

4\. Restricted to C-2, C-3, I-1, I-2, zones

5\. Prohibited locations: On property with the following zoning: Rural Residential zones , Urban Residential zones (all); Office zones (all); “RVC” Rural Village Center Zone , “NC” Neighborhood Commercial Zone , “C-1", Commercial Zone , “P” Parking Zone and “RV” Recreational Vehicle  Zone , Commercial zones , Mixed Use  Zones (all); “P-1" Park Industrial Zone of Division 7, Industrial Zones ; Scenic Corridor Zone , Airport Environs Zone (unless prior approval in writing by Federal Aviation Administration) and Historic Preservation Zone Overlay zones .

6\. Signs shall be permitted only within a Historic or Pedestrian District in compliance with Section 7A.11.1.I and 2.D respectively.

7\. Limited to 20 sq. ft.

   B.   Permanent Signs - Maximum Sign Area And Special Zone  Standards Per Zone Category

MAXIMUM PERMANENT SIGN AREA PER Zone CATEGORY AND SPECIAL Zone STANDARDS

TABLE 2  
  
Zone CATEGORIES

MAXIMUM SIGN AREA

SPECIAL Zone STANDARDS

RESIDENTIAL (RX-1, RX-2, R-1 MH-1) AND RURAL ZONES (IR, RH, SR, SH)

MAXIMUM PERMANENT SIGN AREA PER Zone CATEGORY AND SPECIAL Zone STANDARDS

TABLE 2  
  
Zone CATEGORIES

MAXIMUM SIGN AREA

SPECIAL Zone STANDARDS

RESIDENTIAL (RX-1, RX-2, R-1 MH-1) AND RURAL ZONES (IR, RH, SR, SH)

ALL PERMANENT SIGNS

1\. On building having more than one street  frontage , the maximum allowable number and square footage of on-site signs area permitted for each street  frontage . The maximum allowance, however, is not transferable either in whole or in part from one street  frontage to another.

Residential uses. Non-residential uses located on local streets .

20 Sq. Ft.

1\. No digital signs are permitted except for non-residential uses.

Non-residential uses on arterial or collector streets .

100 Sq. Ft.

1\. Permanent freestanding sign's sign area may not exceed 32 square feet

MULTI-FAMILY  (R-2, R-3 AND MH-2 ZONES )

ALL PERMANENT SIGNS

1\. Heritage landmark signs (HLS), all types. The first HLS on a premise does not count toward the maximum total sign area.

Residential uses. Non-residential uses located on local streets .

50 Sq. Ft

1\. No digital signs are permitted except for non-residential uses.

Non-residential uses on arterial or collector streets .

100 Sq. Ft.

1\. Permanent freestanding sign's sign area may not exceed 50 square feet

NON-RESIDENTIAL O-1 ZONE

ALL PERMANENT SIGNS

20 Sq. Ft.

1\. A 20 sq. ft. sign is allowed per tenant in a multi-tenant complex. The maximum size of any sign is 20 sq. ft. A multi-tenant complex may have no more than two freestanding signs, which may be a tenant sign or a sign for the entire complex.

2\. Signs on arterial and collector streets shall be illuminated by down lights only such as low pressure sodium lighting, halo-effect illumination, full cut-off LED lighting or other similar lighting technologies compatible with the Tucson Outdoor Lighting Code.

3\. Signs shall not be illuminated between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Signs located on a local street frontage shall not be illuminated.

4\. No digital signs are permitted except for non-residential uses.

GENERAL BUSINESS (O-2, O-3, P, RV, NC, RVC, C-1, C-2, C-3, OCR-1, OCR-2, MU AND U ZONES )

ALL PERMANENT SIGNS

3 feet for every lineal foot of street  frontage

1\. If any portion of a parcel is within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a freeway : Four (4) square feet per foot of street  frontage .

If any portion of a parcel is within two hundred fifty (250) feet of a freeway : Four (4) square feet per foot of street  frontage .

2\. Design review: Within effectuated Urban Overlay Districts (UOD) mapped per the Unified Development Code (i.e. with "U" zoning), any single sign 50 square feet in area or larger, or any site where the total sign area exceeds 50 square feet, shall be reviewed under the design review procedure established by the specific UOD.

3\. Heritage landmark signs (HLS), all types. The first HLS on a premise does not count toward the maximum total sign area.

4\. Property where an approved site plan , development plan, or plat provides for a multi-family dwelling as the principal use , shall follow the standards of the Multi-family  Zone Category.

INDUSTRIAL (P-I, I-1, I-2 ZONES )

ALL PERMANENT SIGNS

4 feet for every lineal foot of street  frontage

1\. Heritage landmark signs (HLS), all types. The first HLS on a premise does not count toward the maximum total sign area.

   C.   Permanent Signs - Additional Sign Type Standards

      The sign types below apply to the sign types in all zones but may have more restrictive standards by individual zones or zone categories.

      1.   Sign Types A through E

         a.   Access Point Sign

            An on-site sign located at or near the access point or other wayfinding location. This sign type is permitted in the residential category for non-residential uses, in a multi-family residential or non-residential category for non-residential uses and multi-family uses and is not permitted in the historic district .

            (1)   Size and Height allowed

               Up to 3 ft. tall and up to 6 sq. ft in area, unless section (3) below is met.

            (2)   Site Visibility Triangle (SVT)

               An access point sign must be outside of the SVT. The required minimum setback is 10 feet.

            (3)   Additional allowance

               If the Access Point Sign is located on a premise that has a street frontage of 125 feet or greater, or that has an area of one acre or greater, the Access Point Sign may be up to 4 ft. tall and 12 sq. ft.

         b.   Awning Signs

            (1)   General Standard

               A sign shall be constructed of cloth, plastic, or metal and permanently affixed to a structure intended to provide shade.

            (2)   Zone Category Standard

               Residential Zone Category (RH, SR, SH, RX-1, RX-2, R-1) For home occupation uses only. All other zones and zone categories permitted. See Section 7A.10.2 Table 1 for additional standards.

         c.   Billboards

            (1)   Permitted Locations

               On undeveloped property in the C-2, C-3, I-1, and I-2 zoned property and only within the general business zone category and the industrial zone category.

            (2)   Maximum Area Per Face, Including Embellishments

               (i)   Generally: Six feet by 12 feet.

               (ii)   Within 250 feet of a freeway : 378 square feet.

            (3)   Limitations

               (i)   No more than two faces per sign .

               (ii)   Vertical or horizontal stacking is not permitted.

            (4)   Maximum Height

               (i)   Generally: 16 feet.

               (ii)   Within 250 feet of freeway : 35 feet from freeway grade to top of sign .

            (5)   Minimum Clearance

               4 feet from grade to bottom edge of sign .

            (6)   Minimum Separation

               (i)   Generally: The minimum distance between a billboard and an existing billboard shall be 660 feet, measured in all directions and regardless of jurisdiction.

               (ii)   Within 250 feet of a freeway : The minimum distance between a billboard located within 250 feet of a freeway and an existing billboard shall be 1,980 feet measured in all directions and regardless of jurisdiction.

            (7)   Minimum Setback

               No billboard or part of a billboard shall be located within 200 feet of a residential zone boundary line.

            (8)   Orientation

               Billboard faces shall be oriented perpendicular to the road on which they are located.

            (9)   Prohibited Locations: See Section 7A.10.2 Table

               (i)   Any developed property. Billboards on undeveloped property may remain when there is new development as long as the entire site fully conforms to the Section 4.9.4.G.

               (ii)   Within 400 feet of the future right-of-way of Gateway Routes as designated in the Major Streets and Routes Plan .

            (10)   Prohibited Sign Copy Display

               Notwithstanding any other provision of the sign  standards, billboards may not change sign copy by any type of electronic process or by use of vertical or horizontal rotating panels having two or more sides whereby sign copy is changed by the rotation of one or more panels.

         d.   Canopy Sign

            (1)   Canopy signs are not allowed to extend above the roofline.

            (2)   Canopy signs are counted as a part of the sign allotment.

         e.   Dwelling Unit Sign

            (1)   Zone Category Standards

               (i)   Residential, and Multi-family Residential Zone Categories - No more than one sign may be visible from the exterior the property. The sign shall not exceed one square foot in size.

               (ii)   O-1 Non-residential Zone Categories - No more than one (1) sign may be visible from the exterior of the property. The sign shall not exceed one (1) square foot in size. Freestanding signs may be the monument and low profile types only.

      2.   Sign Types F through O

         a.   Freestanding Signs

            (1)   General Standards

               (i)   Monument type sign , general requirements:

                  (a)   Maximum faces: Four per sign .

                  (b)   Maximum area: 50 feet per face.

                  (c)   Maximum height: Ten feet from grade.

                  (d)   Minimum setback : 20 from curb to leading edge of sign .

               (ii)   Low profile type sign , general requirements:

                  (a)   Maximum faces: Two per sign .

                  (b)   Maximum area: 60 square feet per face.

                  (c)   Maximum height: Eight feet.

                  (d)   Minimum setback from curb to leading edge of sign : Two times the height of the sign .

                  (e)   Minimum continuous base (clearance from grade to bottom of sign ): Two feet.

               (iii)   Freestanding pole sign requirements:

                  (a)   Maximum faces: Two per sign .

                  (b)   Maximum area: 72 square feet per face.

                  (c)   Maximum height: 12 feet.

                  (d)   Minimum setback : 30 feet from curb to leading edge of sign .

            (2)   Freestanding Signs , All Types

               (i)   One freestanding sign for each street  frontage .

               (ii)   One additional freestanding sign on that street  frontage for each additional 150 feet of street  frontage in excess of the first 300 feet.

               (iii)   For each sign placed on the frontage of a local street , the total allowable number of freestanding signs for the arterial or collector street  frontage shall be reduced by one.

            (3)   Zone Category Standards

               (i)   Residential Zone Category (RX-1, RX-2, R-1, AND MH-1 ZONES )

                  (a)   Nonresidential uses may have a freestanding sign .

                  (b)   Monument and low profile only are permitted.

                  (c)   A sign that includes or consist of a three dimensional representation of a figure or object is prohibited.

               (ii)   Multi-Family  Zone Category (R-2, R-3, AND MH-2 ZONES )

                  (a)   Monument and low profile only.

                  (b)   Low profile maximum area is 50 square feet.

                  (c)   A sign that includes or consist of a three dimensional representation of a figure or object is prohibited.

               (iii)   Non-residential Zone Category (O-1 ZONE)

                  (a)   Monument and low profile only.

                  (b)   Maximum number: one per site or premise .

                  (c)   Location: On an arterial or collector street only.

                  (d)   Maximum faces: two per sign , back to back configuration only.

                  (e)   Maximum area: twelve square feet per face.

                  (f)   Maximum height: four feet.

                  (g)   Minimum setback : Twelve feet.

                  (h)   A sign that includes or consist of a three dimensional representation of a figure or object is prohibited.

               (iv)   Industrial Zone Category (P-I, I-1, AND I-2 ZONES )

                  (a)   Freestanding signs , all types.

                     i.   One per street  frontage ; except, where a developed parcel has in excess of 300 feet of street  frontage , one additional freestanding sign may be erected for each additional 150 feet of street  frontage in excess of the first 300 feet of street  frontage  abutting the developed portion of said parcel .

                  (b)   Freestanding pole sign

                     i.   Allowed only in the general business zone category and industrial zone category.

                     ii.   Minimum setback : 30 feet from curb to leading edge of sign .

                     iii.   Pole cover : The sign  structure configuration must be equipped with pole covers or architectural embellishments that hide or conceal all structural components or braces (such as pipes, angles, iron, cables, internal back framing, bracing, etc.). Minimum requirement is 18 inches by six inches. The Pole cover or architectural embellishment shall require a plan check for construction specifications in accordance with applicable technical codes.

                     iv.   When allowed: Allowed only when there is a minimum of 225 feet of street  frontage , or 125 feet of street  frontage and four or more business addresses.

                     v.   Maximum number: Only one freestanding pole sign allowed per street  frontage per premises .

         b.   Freeway Sign

            (1)   Permitted only in the general business zone category and the industrial zone category.

            (2)   Permitted locations: Must be within 250 feet of a freeway  right-of-way .

            (3)   Maximum area: 360 square feet.

            (4)   Maximum height: 48 feet from freeway grade to top of sign .

            (5)   Minimum clearance : 14 feet from grade to bottom of sign .

            (6)   Maximum number: Within a PAD, one per 1,980 linear feet of freeway  frontage measured along the freeway center line, not transferable from one freeway  frontage to another. Within the general business zone category and the industrial zone category, one per premises .

      3.    Sign Types P through Z

          a.   Parking Lot Sign

            (1)   Sign types: A parking lot sign may be a wall or freestanding sign .

            (2)   Permitted locations: Parking lot signs are permitted wherever the sign type of which it is a part is permitted. The sign should follow the best practices for parking lot sign design.

         b.   Pole Sign - Freestanding

            (1)   Allowed only in the general business zone category and industrial zone category.

            (2)   Minimum setback: 30 feet from curb to leading edge of sign .

            (3)   Pole cover: The sign structure configuration must be equipped with pole covers or architectural embellishments that hide or conceal all structural components or braces (such as pipes, angles, iron, cables, internal back framing, bracing, etc.). Minimum requirement is 18 inches by six inches. The Pole cover or architectural embellishment shall require a plan check for construction specifications in accordance with applicable technical codes.

            (4)   When allowed: Allowed only when there is a minimum of 225 feet of street frontage , or 125 feet of street frontage and four or more business addresses.

            (5)   Maximum number: Only one freestanding pole sign allowed per street frontage per premises.

         c.   Projecting Sign

            (1)   Signs shall be permitted only within a Historic or Pedestrian District and in compliance with Section 7A.11.1.I and 2.D respectively.

            (2)   Signs protruding in the right of way shall be approved by the Department of Transportation.

         d.   Wall Sign

            (1)   Residential Zone Category

               Non-residential only. Not allowed for residential uses except as allowed as home occupation and multi-family residential.

            (2)   General Business Zone Category

               Maximum size:

               (i)   Generally: No more than 30% of the area of each wall may be utilized for wall signs .

               (ii)   A wall sign within 250 feet of a freeway shall be no more than 40% of the area of each wall .

            (3)   Industrial Zone Category

               Maximum size: no more than 40% of the area of each wall .

            (4)   Wall Sign General Standards

               (i)   May not extend above the top of the facade , eaves, firewall or roofline of a building or structure .

               (ii)   25% additional area of each wall over and above the allowable sign area may be utilized if no other sign types are used or if nonconforming signs are voluntarily removed.

               (iii)   Signs placed upon the face of a parapet or architectural feature are considered wall signs .

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.10.3   PORTABLE SIGNS

   A.   Portable Signs - Maximum Sign Area Allotment

      1.   The following zones may have portable signs . Additional standards may apply to individual sign types.

 

Zones  

Local Street

Collector Street

Arterial Street

IR, RH, SR, SH, RX-1, RX-2, R-1 MH-1 R-2, R-3 MH-2, O-1

16 sq. ft.

32 sq. ft.

64 sq. ft.

O-2, O-3, P, RV, NC RVC, C-1, -2, -3, OCR-1, -2, MU, U, PI, I-1, I-2

32 sq. ft.

64 sq. ft.

128 sq. ft.

Table 4 - Portable Maximum Sign Area Allotment

   B.   Portable Signs - General Standards

      1.   Ground and Wall Mounted General Standards

         These standards apply to ground mounted and wall -mounted portable signs for a premise . The signs may be attached by cords to posts and other supports and include posters, banners , A-frames , and other similar portable signs types. Ground-mounted includes affixed to the ground, placed on the ground, or attached to a perimeter wall or fence that faces the street .

      2.   No illumination is permitted.

      3.   Ground-Mounted General Standards

         Maximum area per sign in a residential zone is 16 square feet and in a non-residential zone 32 square feet unless otherwise regulated by another portable sign type standard.

         a.   Maximum Height: Ten feet.

         b.   Minimum Setback : Ten feet.

         c.   Maximum Number on a Street  Frontage : No more than four signs shall be allowed for the first 300 feet of street  frontage . An additional sign may be allowed for each additional 75 feet of a street  frontage but not to exceed a total of eight signs for a street  frontage .

         d.   Materials: A ground-mounted portable sign shall be made of similar materials such as non-pliable or taut materials. A sign shall not be a ground-mounted banner made of a pliable fabric such as cloth with multiple supports unless stated otherwise in Article 7A.

         e.   Spacing of ground-mounted portable signs at a premise shall consist of the following:

            (1)   Lots with a street  frontage of 150 feet or greater may have up to four 32 square foot  signs per each 150 feet with at least a minimum of a 30 foot distance between the individual signs . Two of the four signs whose sign areas combined do not exceed 32 square feet may have a distance between each other that is closer than 30 feet. An individual sign under 32 square feet in sign area and not grouped with another sign must be at a minimum a distance of 15 feet from another sign .

            (2)   Lots with a street  frontage less than 150 feet but greater or equal to 75 feet may have up to two 32 square foot  signs with a 30 foot distance between the signs . If the two signs combined sign area does not exceed 32 square feet the signs may be placed at a distance between each other that is closer than 30 feet. An individual sign under 32 square feet in sign area and not grouped with another sign must be at a minimum a distance of 15 feet from another sign .

            (3)   Lots with a street  frontage less than 75 feet may have one sign up to 32 square feet in sign area.

      4.   Wall -Mounted General Sign  Standards

         A wall -mounted portable sign may not exceed 32 square feet on an arterial street , 16 square feet on a collector street or eight square feet on a local street . Wall -mounted banners are not allowed on a dwelling unit.

   C.   Portable Sign - Additional Standards

      1.   A-frame  Signs

         a.   An A-frame  sign is an on-site non-illuminated sign temporarily authorized for one year used to advertise the location, goods or services offered on the premises . The A-frame  sign must be made of a durable, rigid material such as, but not limited to, wood, plastic or metal.

         b.   A-Frame  signs are prohibited from any form of illumination, animation, movement and miscellaneous attachments including, but not limited to, balloons, ribbons, speakers etc.

         c.   A-frame  signs are not permitted in the public right-of-way except where a temporary revocable easement has been granted for their placement.

         d.   Maximum Height and Width

            The A-frame  sign when placed in an open position must not exceed a height of 30 inches from ground level to the top of the sign and be no more than 30 inches wide.

         e.   Maximum Number

            One per business. The A-frame  sign must be removed from the street at the close of business.

         f.   Districts

            A-frames  signs are regulated by district : they are permitted in the commercial and industrial zones , planned area development  district , pedestrian business district and historic district subject to subsection below. Subject to the other restrictions under this section, A-frames  signs are allowed in all districts to advertise those businesses immediately adjacent to and affected by road or water construction.

         g.   Historic District

            An A-frame  sign may be permitted in a historic district after review and approval by the planning and development services director , the applicable historic district advisory board and the Tucson Pima County Historical Commission.

         h.   Decal Required

            A decal issued by the City for placement of any A-frame  sign shall be displayed on the upper right hand corner of each visible advertising face. An A-frame  sign authorized to be located in the City's public right-of-way shall display a decal of a different color than signs not authorized to be in the public right-of-way .

         i.   Permission Required

            The permission of the property owner for use of the sign is also required.

         j.   Sign Maintenance

            The A-frame shall be properly maintained.

         k.   Application Process

            By signing and submitting the application the applicant verifies the following:

            (1)   The property owner or management company is in compliance with their current lease agreement in regard to the permissibility of A-frame  signs ; and,

            (2)   The applicant is responsible to research and verify right-of-way information to ensure that the proposed location of the A-frame is on private property and is not located in the City's public right-of-way .

         l.   Site Inspection

            A site inspection is not required as part of the application and permit process for A-frame  signs that are not located in the public right-of-way . For A-frame  signs located in the public right-of-way , the zoning administrator may require site inspection or additional inspections of the sign  standards to ensure proper placement.

         m.   Refunds

            No refunds of application or annual permit fees will be given under any circumstance.

         n.   Placement

            The A-frame  sign must be located at least two feet back from the face of the curb. No A-frame  sign shall be located in a median, driving lane, parking aisles or spaces. An A-frame  sign is not permitted in the City's public right-of-way without a temporary revocable easement. An A-frame  sign shall be placed so that a minimum four feet is left clear for pedestrian passage on all sidewalks and walkways. An A-frame  sign shall only be placed at grade level and shall not be placed on walls, boulders, planters, vehicles, other signs or any other type of structure .

         o.   Temporary Revocable Easement

            (1)   A license to permit the placement of a temporary A-frame  sign in the public right-of-way may be granted administratively by the zoning administrator upon the written terms and conditions as are required by the zoning administrator and contained in the written license agreement. The applicant will submit a written application upon a form to be supplied by the office of the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator will then approve or deny such application. A license to permit an A-frame  sign in the public right-of-way shall not be granted until all other applicable permit requirements contained in this Code are met.

            (2)   If at any time after a license is granted, any portion of the public right-of-way occupied and used by the licensee may be needed or required by the City or the licensee fails to maintain the permitted sign so as to block pedestrian traffic, site visibility, or as described by such specific terms and conditions set forth by the zoning administrator, any license granted pursuant to this section may be revoked by the City and all rights there under are terminated. The licensee shall and will promptly remove all property belonging to the licensee from the public right-of-way area upon receipt of written notice of revocation. If removal is not accomplished by the licensee within the time specified in the notice, the City will cause the sign to be removed and stored and the cost thereof shall be charged to the licensee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any A-frame  sign placed in violation of the provisions of this section is deemed to be a public nuisance and subject to removal by the City.

         p.   Removal of Sign

            In addition to the penalties described below, the zoning administrator may remove any A-frame  sign that is placed in violation of the sign  standards . The zoning administrator may immediately remove, without prior notice, any A-frame  sign illegally placed in the right-of-way or site visibility triangle, or that for any reason presents an immediate hazard. For any A-frame  sign otherwise illegally placed, the zoning administrator may remove the sign after providing reasonable notice to the responsible party  

      2.   Commercial Flags, Feather Banners , and Banner Flags

         In commercial and industrial zones , in lieu of the Portable Sign area allotment, an applicant may use four commercial flags, feather banners , or banner flags using two colors with one additional portable sign .

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.10.4   TEMPORARY SIGNS

   A.   Temporary Signs

      The following sign types are permitted for a limited period of time and are not calculated as part of the portable sign area allotment.

      1.   A Fixed balloon sign is permitted as a temporary sign under the following standards :

         a.   One balloon sign 2' in diameter or larger is permitted per establishment. Balloons smaller than 2' in diameter are considered small fixed balloons and are regulated by Section 7A.10.4.A.3;

         b.   A fixed balloon sign is prohibited from having mechanical or electronic movement or animation of any kind;

         c.   A permit for a fixed balloon will be issued for a period of 90 days.

         d.   The permitted fixed balloon may be displayed for up to 10 consecutive days at a time.

         e.   A fixed balloon is allowed in commercial and industrial zones only.

      2.   Temporary Banner

         A wall -mounted banner may be permitted under the following standards :

         a.   Maximum number: One banner per street  frontage .

         b.   Size: 90 sq. ft. maximum.

         c.   Allowed in a commercial and industrial zone only.

         d.   A temporary wall -mounted banner is not calculated as part of the portable sign area allotment for a premise or building on a premise.

         e.   All corners must be attached to the building  wall or facade or a temporary construction structure during periods of remodeling or road construction.

         f.    Allowed in 90-day increments. This banner cannot be used for more than a cumulative total of 90 days in any calendar year, except that if this banner is used to temporarily advertise business activities during the course of construction, permit may be renewed until construction has been completed.

         g.   The temporary banner is subject to Section 7A.2 Non-commercial Speech Substitution.

         h.   Removal: Upon completion of construction or as stated on the permit for installation of the banner.

      3.   Propellers, Hula Strips, Small Fixed Balloons, and Pennants

         Propellers, hula strips, small fixed balloons, and pennants may be permitted under the following standards:

         a.   Allowed in 90-day increments. The propellers, hula strips, small fixed balloons, and pennants cannot be used for more than a cumulative total of 180 days in any calendar year.

         b.   Propellers, hula strips , small fixed balloons, and pennants are subject to Section 7A.2  Non-commercial Speech Substitution.

      4.   Political Election Signs

         Shall comply with A.R.S. § 16-1019.

         a.   Maximum area: 32 square feet in commercial and industrial zones and 16 square feet in rural and residential zones .

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.10.5   HERITAGE LANDMARK SIGNS (HLS)

   A.   Definitions

      1.   Heritage landmark sign (HLS). A sign that has conditional or final designation as a heritage landmark sign . HLS are listed on the City of Tucson Heritage landmark Sign Registry. There are three types of HLS: classic, transitional, and replica.

      2.   Classic HLS. A heritage landmark sign originally installed prior to 1961.

      3.   Transitional HLS. A heritage landmark sign originally installed between 1961 and 1974 inclusive.

      4.   Replica HLS. An accurate reconstruction of an original sign that no longer exists. The sign to be replicated must have been originally installed prior to 1961.

      5.   Heritage landmark sign (HLS) character defining features. Physical features of an HLS such as materials, technologies, structure , colors, shapes, symbols, text, font/typography and/or art that have cultural and historical significance and are integral to overall sign design.

      6.   Heritage landmark sign (HLS) concentration. A minimum of three previously designated HLS, or signs meeting the criteria for designation, within 2,640 linear feet (1/2 mile) as measured along the center line of a street , including turning in any direction at the intersection of a street to connect with another designated HLS or sign meeting the criteria for designation, together with an additional 440 linear feet (1/16 mile) beyond the terminus HLS. A replica HLS cannot be used as part of the number of HLS in the calculation of a HLS concentration.

      7.   Heritage landmark sign (HLS) registry. The official list of designated historic landmark  signs within the City of Tucson.

      8.   Heritage landmark sign (HLS) treatment plan. A detailed description of an HLS including its character defining features, condition, location, and maintenance, and, as applicable, proposed restoration, adaptive reuse, relocation, and, replication.

   B.   Purpose

      1.   The Heritage landmark Sign regulations are intended to provide for the preservation of the City of Tucson's unique character, history, and identity, as reflected in its historic and iconic signs , and

      2.   To restore the sense of place that existed within the central business district and in areas of the City with concentrations of surviving historic signs , and

      3.   To protect the community from inappropriate reuse of nonconforming and/or illegal signs .

   C.   Heritage Landmark Sign (HLS) Designation

      1.   Requests for HLS designation shall be initiated by the sign owner and supported by an HLS treatment plan.

      2.   "As is" HLS designation. An existing sign which will not be restored/repaired, adaptively reused, or relocated, and retains sufficient integrity and character-defining historic features, is in working order, and has an acceptable appearance, may obtain HLS designation "as is", upon approval of the treatment plan.

      3.   Conditional HLS Designation

         a.   The decision to approve or deny an HLS treatment plan that meets each of the HLS designation guidelines is rendered per the administrative process herein.

         b.   The decision to approve or deny an HLS treatment plan that does not meet each of the HLS designation guidelines is rendered per the legislative process herein.

         c.   Approval of an HLS treatment plan shall constitute conditional HLS designation.

      4.   Final HLS Designation

         Final HLS designation shall be contingent upon issuance of a sign permit in compliance with an approved HLS treatment plan, and final inspection of the sign within five years of conditional HLS designation. Issuance of a permit is not required for "as is" designation.

      5.   All signs designated (conditional or final) as heritage landmark signs shall be listed in the City of Tucson Heritage landmark Sign Registry.

   D.   HLS Designation Guidelines

      Classic, transitional, and replica HLS shall be reviewed for compliance with the following guidelines:

      1.   Technical guidelines:

         a.   The sign shall include or have once included exposed integral incandescent lighting, or exposed neon lighting.

         b.   The sign shall use materials and technology representative of its period of construction.

         c.   The sign shall be non-rectangular or non-planar.

         d.   The sign shall be a permanent sign , including but not limited to a detached, projecting, wall , or roof sign .

         e.   The sign is structurally safe or can be made safe without substantially altering its historical appearance.

      2.   Cultural/historical/design guidelines:

         a.   The sign shall exemplify the cultural, economic, and historic heritage of Tucson.

         b.   The sign shall exhibit extraordinary aesthetic quality, creativity, and innovation.

         c.   The sign is unique; or was originally associated with a chain or franchise business that is either a local or regional chain or franchise only found in Tucson or the southwestern United States; or there is scholarly documentation to support its preservation; or it is a rare surviving example of a once common type.

         d.   The sign shall retain the majority of its character defining features. If character-defining features have been altered or removed, the majority are potentially restorable to their historic function and appearance.

   E.   HLS Performance Requirements

      Classic, transitional, and replica HLS shall comply with the following requirements as applicable:

      1.   Restoration/repair

         a.   Restoration/repair of a classic HLS shall be consistent with a documented appearance that existed prior to 1961.

         b.   Restoration/repair of a transitional HLS shall be consistent with a documented appearance that existed between 1961 and 1974 inclusive.

         c.   Restoration/repair of a replica HLS shall be consistent with a documented appearance that existed prior to 1961.

         d.   Restoration/repair shall not add typographical or other elements which result in an increase in the size of the restored/repaired sign .

      2.   Adaptive Reuse (Change of Copy)

         a.   Adaptive reuse of a replica HLS is prohibited.

         b.   Text changes shall not result in changes to character defining text.

         c.   Text changes shall match or be compatible with existing text in material(s), letter size, font/typography, and color.

      3.   Relocation

         a.   When relocated, detached HLS shall be setback at least 20 feet from the back of curb (edge of pavement if there is no curb), no more than 40 feet from the future right-of-way line of the street , and a distance at least two times the height of the sign from any property with a non-commercial use.

         b.   If relocated to another premise , the HLS shall display conspicuous text or a plaque, using a template provided by the City of Tucson, that indicates that the sign has been relocated, the date of relocation, and the original location.

         c.   The scale and design of the sign to be relocated shall be compatible with existing HLS in the vicinity of the proposed location.

      4.   Replica HLS

         a.   A replica HLS shall be consistent with a documented appearance that existed prior to 1961.

         b.   A replica HLS may only be installed on the premises where it originally existed.

         c.   A replica HLS shall display conspicuous text or a plaque, using a template provided by the City of Tucson, that indicates the sign is a contemporary reproduction, and the date of reproduction.

         d.   A replica HLS shall utilize historical materials and technologies, or visually matching contemporary materials and technologies.

         e.   A replica HLS shall not replicate an existing sign .

      5.   The sign shall not be an off-site sign as defined in the sign  standards .

      6.   The sign shall not have been previously, altered, removed and reinstalled or replaced pursuant to Section 7A.9 Non-conforming Signs.

   F.   Content of HLS Treatment Plan

      An HLS treatment plan shall include the following:

      1.   Completed application form.

      2.   Existing and proposed elevation of the proposed HLS showing height and area of the sign .

      3.   Description and age of construction materials and type of illumination.

      4.   Dimensioned site plan , with the existing and proposed land use , graphically showing existing and proposed location and setbacks for the proposed HLS and any other existing or proposed signs on the premises , existing and proposed site  improvements , and adjacent  streets .

      5.   Photographs of the existing sign and photo simulation(s) of the completed sign as viewed from the street and other significant vantage points as appropriate, together with photographs of the existing site conditions. Photographs must be sufficient to demonstrate the sign's dimensions, construction materials used including electrical and any types of illumination which is or was used.

      6.   Date of original construction and installation, and the address where the proposed HLS was first installed.

      7.   List of character defining features.

      8.   Documentation of the authenticity of the proposed HLS including approved permits, site plans , elevations, and dated photographs, and age of existing materials, as available.

      9.   A narrative describing compliance with each of the HLS designation guidelines and all applicable HLS performance requirements.

      10.   Maintenance program.

      11.   List of parts and materials to be replaced.

      12.   Mitigation measures to reduce the impact on residential uses within 300 feet of the proposed HLS.

   G.   Review of HLS Treatment Plan

      HLS treatment plans shall be submitted to the Planning and Development Services Department for review.

      1.   Pre-submittal conference. Prior to submitting an HLS treatment plan, an applicant may, but is not required to meet with City staff responsible for administration of the HLS program. Comments supplied by City staff during the conference are advisory and do not constitute approval of any proposed application.

      2.   Neighborhood meeting. A neighborhood meeting is encouraged for a proposed HLS relocation, or for a proposed construction of a HLS replica sign .

      3.   Initial review. Initial review of an HLS treatment plan or revised treatment plan will be for completeness, compliance with HLS designation guidelines, and compliance with applicable HLS performance requirements. No later than ten days after submittal, the zoning administrator will issue a determination as to whether the request meets each of the HLS technical designation guidelines.

      4.   Where an applicant produces physical evidence or documentation sufficient to prove that a proposed HLS included intermittent lighting features (e.g. flashing, blinking, chasing or sequentially lit elements which create the appearance of movement) or moving parts, such sign elements may be repaired or restored conditioned upon a determination by Tucson Department of Transportation (TDOT) that no negative safety issues will result.

      5.   If the subject property is within a historic preservation zone (HPZ), the treatment plan shall be forwarded to the HPZ advisory board for review and recommendation prior to being forwarded to the Tucson-Pima County Historical Commission (T-PCHC) Plans Review Subcommittee .

      6.   Review of the treatment plan shall include an analysis of applicable policies of the Tucson general plan .

      7.   The treatment plan shall be forwarded to the T-PCHC Plans Review Subcommittee for review of the treatment plan for compliance with HLS Cultural/ historic/design designation guidelines and applicable HLS performance requirements. Notice of the treatment plan and subcommittee meeting shall also be provided to the registered neighborhood association in which the proposed sign would be located; to property owners immediately adjacent to the proposed location; and to any persons who have submitted a written request to the director to be notified of HLS applications.

      8.   The T-PCHC shall forward a recommended list of character defining features, including all character defining text, and a recommendation to approve or deny the treatment plan, to the Planning and Development Services Department.

      9.   Decision

         a.   Administrative: The planning and development services director will prepare a written decision to approve or deny the treatment plan within ten days of receiving the T-PCHC Plans Review Subcommittee recommendation.

         b.   Legislative: An appeal from the Planning and Development Services Director's decision shall be conducted in accordance with Section 3.9.2, Mayor and Council Appeal Procedure. In granting approval, the mayor and council must find that preservation of the sign will contribute to Tucson's unique character, history, and identity.

   H.   Review of Permits for HLS

      All permits for the installation, repair /restoration, adaptive reuse, relocation, or replication of HLS shall be consistent with an approved HLS treatment plan.

   I.   Maintenance

      All maintenance activities relating to HLS shall be consistent with an approved HLS treatment plan.

   J.   Demolition

      Demolition of HLS shall be consistent with an approved treatment plan for relocation or subject to a maximum 30 day waiting period to facilitate salvage of the sign . The sign owner shall allow reasonable access to the sign to facilitate documentation and salvage activities.

(Ord. 11508, 12/5/2017; Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

