#### 7A.2.   INTERPRETATION, SEVERABILITY, AND NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH SUBSTITUTION

##### 7A.2.1.   INTERPRETATION

   The zoning administrator shall interpret and apply the sign  standards. Where there is a conflict between provisions of the sign  standards and other provisions of the Unified Development Code , the more restrictive provisions shall prevail.

##### 7A.2.2.   INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES

   A.   Zones and special sign districts are determined by adopted maps. The pedestrian business district , historic district and scenic corridor zone  district are specifically mapped districts that supersede the underlying zoning classifications for purpose of determining the sign regulations. Please reference Section 7A.11 Special Districts for maps showing locations of special districts. The scenic corridor zone  district is determined based upon the mapped scenic corridors of the Major Streets and Routes Plan .

   B.   The effectuation of a change of zoning for a property will also effectuate a change in the sign  standards.

   C.   Interpretation of a special sign  district shall be made by the zoning administrator.

##### 7A.2.3.   APPLICATION OF PRIOR CODE SECTIONS

   Chapter 3 of the Tucson Code as adopted and amended prior to the adoption of the sign  standards is repealed except that the same is continued in full force and effect as necessary to the final determination and disposition of the prosecution or litigation of any claim or complaint that has been made or may be made in the future alleging a violation of any prior provision of Chapter 3 based upon acts occurring prior to the repeal of any such provision.

##### 7A.2.4.   SEVERABILITY AND NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH SUBSTITUTION

   Article 7A is subject to Section 1.8 Severability. Any provision of the sign  standards that imposes a limitation on freedom of speech shall be construed in a manner that is viewpoint neutral and treats expressive speech either the same as or less restrictive than commercial speech. Any provision of the sign  standards that is found to be an unconstitutional limitation on freedom of speech by any court shall be severed from the sign  standards in a manner that preserves the standards and protects freedom of speech.

(Ord. 11508, 12/5/2017)

