#### 7A.9.   NONCONFORMING SIGNS AND CHANGE OF USE

##### 7A.9.1.   SIGNS FOR LEGAL NONCONFORMING USES

   A.   Subject to the provisions of this section, signs for a legal nonconforming use , as defined in the Unified Development Code , are allowed. Such signs shall be allowed only so long as the nonconforming use is allowed. A final determination by the zoning administrator that a nonconforming use has been discontinued or abandoned shall also be the final determination of the nonconforming status of the related sign .

   B.   A sign legally existing on the effective date of the sign  standards but that does not comply with the regulations of the sign  standards adopted after the sign was legally permitted shall be deemed to be a nonconforming sign and shall be subject to the provisions of this article.

   C.   Except for reasonable repairs and alterations , no nonconforming sign shall be moved, altered, removed and reinstalled, or replaced, unless it is brought into compliance with the requirements of the sign  standards. The updating of electrical components for a non-conforming sign may be considered an approved alteration. The alteration cannot change the sign copy from static sign copy to digital sign copy.

##### 7A.9.2.   CHANGE OF USE

   A.   Any nonconforming sign may continue to be utilized as long as the occupancy of the use within the structure remains the same. When a use changes from one occupancy category to another, all signs shall be brought into conformance with the provisions of this article.

   B.   Any use not mentioned specifically or about which there is any question shall be classified by the zoning administrator and included in the group which its use most nearly resembles.

   C.   Occupancy Categories

      1.   Assembly uses such as theaters, churches, stadiums, review stands and amusement park structures .

      2.   Educational uses such as nurseries, child-care and other educational purposes.

      3.   Institutional uses such as hospitals, sanitariums, nursing homes, mental hospitals and sanitariums, jails, prisons and reformatories.

      4.   Manufacturing and industrial uses such as storage of materials, dry cleaning plants, paint shops, woodworking, printing plants, ice plants, power plants and creameries.

      5.   Service facilities such as repair garages, aircraft repair hangers, gasoline and service stations.

      6.   Wholesale uses.

      7.   Retail uses including personal services.

      8.   Office uses including medical offices and urgent care.

      9.   Restaurant, drinking and dining uses.

      10.   Government uses such as police and fire stations.

      11.   Multi-occupancy dwellings such as hotels, apartment houses, convents, monasteries and lodging houses.

      12.   Single-family dwellings.

      13.   Parking facilities such as parking garages.

(Ord. 11508, 12/5/2017; Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

