#### 8.4.   SUBDIVISIONS

##### 8.4.1.   BLOCK PLAT

   A.   Purpose

   The block plat process allows a subdivider to divide a parcel of land into ten or fewer lots without the necessity of a tentative plat, subject to the requirements of this section as allowed for by A.R.S. §9-463.01(U). A block plat may be used to abandon a previously recorded plat. Although a tentative plat is not required, additional information shall be submitted as needed, to review the project for compliance with all governmental regulations and good engineering practices. Additional information that may need to be provided include a geotechnical report, grading plan, drainage report, phasing plan, title report, or other documents that the City deems necessary to review for compliance with all applicable standards.

   B.   Applicability

   Any proposed block plat , as defined in Section 11.4.3, shall be submitted to PDSD for review and decision as provided below.

   C.   Pre-application Conference Required

   A pre-application conference in accordance with Section 3.2.1 is required.

   D.   Application, Review, Decision, and Recordation

      1.   Block plats shall be prepared, reviewed for compliance with Section 8.4.1.E, Criteria, and considered for approval in accordance with Section 8.4.5, Final Plat, with the exception that a pre-application is required.

      2.   After approval of the block plat by the Mayor and Council, the block plat must be recorded with the Office of the Pima County Recorder.

   E.   Criteria

   Block plats must:

      1.   Result in ten or fewer lots;

      2.   Result in lots /blocks that conform to the minimum lot size requirements of the property’s zone ;

      3.   Provide access to the proposed lots in compliance with Section 7.8, Access, of the UDC and Sections 7-01.0.0, Pedestrian Access, and 10-01.0.0, Street Technical Standard, of the Technical Standards Manual;

      4.   Results in all existing buildings complying with the perimeter yard requirements of the property’s zone ;

      5.   Conform to all City , state , and federal drainage requirements;

      6.   Result in lots of at least the minimum size required to build in conformance with the applicable zoning including any natural, environmental and floodplain requirements;

      7.   Not be for a Flexible Lot Development; and,

      8.   When used to abandon a plat, the disposition of the public right-of-way and utility easements created by the abandoned plat is provided.

(Am. Ord. 11070, 5/14/2013)

##### 8.4.2.   RESIDENTIAL AND NON-RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUM AND CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION  PLAT

   A.   Purpose

   The purpose of this section is to establish procedures and requirements for proposed condominium  projects and the conversion of existing structure(s) into condominiums as allowed by A.R.S. Title 33, Chapter 9.

   B.   Applicability

   A proposed condominium  project or condominium conversion that meets the definition of a subdivision , as defined in Section 11.4.20, shall be submitted to the PDSD for review and decision as provided below.

   C.   Application, Review, Decision, and Recordation

      1.   Under Arizona Revised Statutes, A.R.S. § 9-463.02(A), a subdivision  plat is required when a condominium or similar project contains four or more parcels .

      2.   A tentative and final plat is required; however, the approved site plan for the existing structure/development may serve as the tentative plat if approved by the Director .

      3.   Tentative plats of a proposed condominium are prepared, reviewed, and considered for approval in accordance with Section 8.4.4, Tentative Plat.

      4.   Final plats of the proposed condominium or condominium conversion n are prepared, reviewed, and considered for approval in accordance with Section 8.4.5, Final Plat.

      5.   A final plat may be submitted concurrent with the tentative plat in accordance with Section 3.2.3.B, Sequential or Concurrent Review Procedure.

      6.   After approval by the Mayor and Council, the final condominium or condominium conversion  plat must be recorded with the Office of the Pima County Recorder.

(Am. Ord. 11200, 9/23/2014)

##### 8.4.3.   MINOR SUBDIVISION

   A.   Purpose

   A minor subdivision may be accomplished with less documentation and it provides a more streamlined process than required for subdivisions. Although a tentative plat is not required, additional information shall be submitted, as needed, to review the project for compliance with all governmental regulations and good engineering practices. Additional information that may need to be provided include a geotechnical report, grading plan, drainage report, phasing plan, title report, or other documents that the City deems necessary to review for compliance with all applicable standards. The purpose of this section is to establish procedures and requirements for minor subdivision  plats .

   B.   Applicability

   A subdivision meeting the following criteria is considered a minor subdivision :

      1.   The number of proposed lots is ten or less;

      2.   All utility services are available at the subdivision  site boundary;

      3.   All proposed lots have street  frontage or perpetual access easements of a minimum width and maximum length complying with requirements established by Section 7.8, Access, of the UDC and Section 10-01.0.0, Street Technical Standards, of the Technical Standards Manual;

      4.   All streets forming the boundary of the subdivision are fully improved, except for sidewalks that may be improved as part of the project ;

      5.   The subdivision has no special topographic conditions, such as slopes greater than 10%;

      6.   The property is not located within a 100-year regulatory floodplain area or erosion hazard setback ;

      7.   The property has all weather access in accordance with the City of Tucson Floodplain Ordinance and Design Manuals, or Section 10-02.4.4, Street Drainage, of the Technical Standards Manual;

      8.   The proposed subdivision  site does not have special development requirements, or special requirements have been reviewed and special development requirements have been determined. These special development requirements may include, but are not limited to, the Hillside Development Zone (HDZ); the Environmental Resource Zone (ERZ); the Scenic Corridor Zone (SCZ); and the Watercourse Amenities, Safety, and Habitat (WASH) ordinance; and,

      9.   The minor subdivision cannot be used for the creation of Flexible Lot Development (FLD).

   C.   General Provisions

      1.   Minor subdivisions shall conform to the design standards provided in Section 8.6 , General Requirements for Subdivisions, and Sections 8.7.1 and .2 of the Subdivision Design Standards.

      2.   Up to two single-family model homes may be authorized for construction prior to recordation of the final plat, provided:

         a.   Sale of a lot or occupancy of an individual structure as a residence does not occur until after recordation of the final plat and the City ’s release of assurances for improvements , and

         b.   The location of each structure is based on the minor subdivision  lot configuration approval for final plat recording.

   D.   Pre-application Conference Required

   A pre-application conference in accordance with Section 3.2.1 is required.

   E.   Application, Review, Decision, and Recordation

      1.   Minor subdivisions are prepared, reviewed for compliance with all applicable requirements, and considered for approval in accordance with Section 8.4.5, Final Plat, with the exception that a pre-application is required;

      2.   Any reviews that are normally conducted during the tentative plat process, such as those involving drainage statements or reports, shall instead be conducted as part of the final plat process; and,

      3.   After approval by the Mayor and Council, the minor subdivision must be recorded with the Office of the Pima County Recorder.

##### 8.4.4.   TENTATIVE PLAT

   A.   Purpose

   The tentative plat sets forth the technical mapping of the project including its density , intensity, land uses , pedestrian and bicycle ways, trails, parks, open space , and future lots , streets , and drainage patterns established for the site . The purpose of this section is to establish procedures and requirements for tentative plats . If the subdivision proposed is a Flexible Lot Development, the subdivision shall additionally comply with Section 8.7.3.

   B.   Applicability

   Any proposed subdivision , as defined in Section 11.4.20, shall be submitted to PDSD for review and decision as provided in this section.

   C.   Pre-application Conference Recommended

   A pre-application conference in accordance with Section 3.2.1 is recommended, but not required.

   D.   Neighborhood Meeting Required for Flexible Lot Developments Only

   For Flexible Lot Development Project tentative plats only, the applicant is required to conduct a neighborhood meeting and provide notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 3.2.2, Neighborhood Meeting.

   E.   Application Required

      1.   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. The application must be in accordance with Section 2-06.0.0, Development Package, of the Administrative Manual. Applications are reviewed for completeness in accordance with Section 3.2.3, Application Requirements.

      2.   A final plat may be submitted concurrent with the tentative plat in accordance with Section 3.2.3.B, Sequential or Concurrent Review Procedure.

      3.   For Flexible Lot Development Projec t tentative plats only, a mailed notice of application is required in accordance with Section 3.2.4.B, Mailed Notice.

   F.   Review

      1.   PDSD shall coordinate the formal technical review of all tentative plats to ensure the plats are prepared in accordance with the applicable codes, ordinances, and standards.

      2.   On receipt of the application, PDSD shall distribute copies of the tentative plat to CDRC members for review and comment.

      3.   CDRC shall review the tentative plat for compliance with all pertinent codes and legal requirements, including, but not limited to, codes regulating streets , sidewalks and public transportation access, zoning, floodplain and drainage, grading , fire, water, environmental services, Pima County wastewater, and utility company regulations.

      4.   If CDRC finds that the tentative plat requires revisions then:

         a.   The plat will be returned to the subdivider with a letter listing specific deficiencies and required revisions;

         b.   The subdivider shall resubmit a revised tentative plat and a letter which responds to each deficiency in detail and explains any revisions made by the subdivider to the plat;

         c.   The subdivider continues to resubmit the tentative plat until such time as the CDRC recommends approval of the tentative plat and it is forwarded to the PDSD Director ; and,

         d.   Any necessary resubmittals will not change or extend the expiration times commencing at acceptance of a tentative plat, as provided in this article.

      5.   The zoning of the property shall permit the proposed use, and any changes to zoning shall have been adopted prior to the approval of the tentative plat.

   G.   Decision

      1.   If the requirements for tentative plats have been met, then the CDRC , by its designated representative, shall send a letter to the applicant notifying the applicant that the plat has been forwarded to the PDSD Director with a recommendation for approval.

      2.   The PDSD Director , or designee, shall approve the tentative plat once all the final documents, as detailed in the CDRC decision letter, are submitted for his or her signature.

   H.   Significance of Tentative Plat Approval

   Approval of the tentative plat shall constitute authorization for the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of the final plat.

      1.   Once a tentative plat is approved, the layout and design under which approval of the tentative plat is granted shall not be changed without concurrence of both the reviewing departments and agencies and subdivider prior to the expiration date of the tentative plat.

      2.   Approval of a tentative plat does not guarantee final acceptance of streets for dedication.

   I.   Tentative Plats Approved Prior to the Effective Date of the UDC

   A final plat application for which a tentative plat was approved prior to the effective date of this UDC may be processed in accordance with the tentative plat approval and applicable terms of the ordinance in place at the time of tentative plat approval, even if the application does not comply with one or more standards set forth in this UDC . Tentative plat approvals granted prior to the effective date of this UDC may be extended no more than once, and for no longer than one year.

##### 8.4.5.   FINAL PLAT

   A.   Applicability

      1.   Proposed subdivisions, including minor subdivisions , block plats , and condominium  plats , require the review and approval of a final plat.

      2.   The subdivider shall construct all required subdivision improvements , at no expense to the City , prior to recordation of the final plat, or the subdivider may post assurances as detailed in Section 8.6.2, Subdivision Improvements and Assurances.

   B.   Application Required

      1.   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. The application must be in accordance with Administrative Manual (AM) Section 2-07.0.0, Final Plat , Block Plat , Minor Subdivision , and Condominium  Plat. Applications are reviewed for completeness in accordance with Section 3.2.3.

      2.   The final plat shall substantially conform to the approved tentative plat.

      3.   Assurances in accordance with Section 8.6.2, Subdivision Improvements and Assurances, is also required, when applicable, for review and consideration for approval by the City Engineer.

      4.   A final plat may be submitted concurrent with the tentative plat in accordance with Section 3.2.3.B, Sequential or Concurrent Review Procedure.

   C.   Review

      1.   The CDRC reviews the final plat for compliance with all pertinent codes and legal requirements, including, but not limited to, codes regulating streets , sidewalks and public transportation access, zoning, floodplain and drainage, fire, water, environmental services, Pima County wastewater, and utility company regulations. Additionally, the City Engineer reviews the assurances in accordance with Section 8.6.2, Subdivision Improvements and Assurances.

      2.   If the CDRC finds that the final plat requires revisions, then:

         a.   The plat will be returned to the subdivider with a letter listing specific deficiencies and required revisions;

         b.   The subdivider shall resubmit a revised final plat and a letter which responds to each deficiency in detail and explains any revisions made by the subdivider to the plat;

         c.   The subdivider continues to resubmit the final plat until such time as the CDRC recommends approval of the final plat and it is forwarded to the PDSD Director ; and,

         d.   Any necessary resubmittals will not change or extend the expiration times commencing at acceptance of a final plat, as provided in this article.

      3.   Upon completing their review, the CDRC shall forward a recommendation whether to approve the final plat.

   D.   Decision

      1.   Approval and Decision

         a.   Upon recommendation of approval by the CDRC and submission of all required items as detailed in the CDRC approval letter, the PDSD Director shall sign and then forward the final plat to the City Engineer for consideration and signature;

         b.   Pursuant to Section 8.6.2.A.3, assurances must be approved by the City Engineer prior to approval of the final plat; and,

         c.   If the plat is dependent on the adoption of a rezoning ordinance, the City's approval and signature must not occur until after the Mayor and Council consideration of the rezoning ordinance.

         d.   Upon approval and signature of the final plat by the PDSD Director and the City Engineer, the PDSD shall provide a notice of the decision to the applicant and any party requesting such notice.

      2.   Recordation

         a.   When a subdivider has opted not to post assurances and in accordance with Section 8.6.2.A, a subdivider shall construct all required subdivision improvements at no expense to the City prior to the recordation of the final plat.

         b.   The City Clerk’s Office shall forward the final plat documents to the Office of the Pima County Recorder for recordation after approval of the final plat by City staff persons. If the use of the property proposed through the plat is dependent on the adoption of a rezoning ordinance, the recordation shall occur after the effective date of any change in zoning.

(Am. Ord. 12219, 12/16/2025)

