#### 8.6.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBDIVISIONS

##### 8.6.1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

   The following requirements apply to all subdivisions.

##### 8.6.2.   SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSURANCES

   Assurances are required when the assurable infrastructure is not completed at the time a final plat is recorded. Assurances provide security that the subdivider will complete necessary improvements . The following requirements also apply to the subdivider (s) or developers when acceptable substitutions of assurances are used.

   A.   Requirement

      1.   A subdivider shall construct all required subdivision improvements at no expense to the City prior to the recordation of the final plat.

      2.   If a subdivider posts assurances to guarantee the completion of the required assurable infrastructure , the form and the amount of the assurance shall conform to the requirements of this section and the Administrative Manual and is satisfactory to the City Attorney’s Office as to form, sufficiency, and manner of execution.

      3.   Assurances that all required assurable infrastructure will be completed as approved by the City shall be provided by the subdivider in accordance with Section 2-09.0.0, Assurances, of the Administrative Manual before a final plat is forwarded to the Mayor and Council for approval. The PDSD Engineering Administrator is authorized to execute on behalf of the Mayor and Council agreements with the subdivider to ensure that subdivision  assurances are provided by the subdivider in accordance with Section 2-09.0.0 , Assurances, of the Administrative Manual. The PDSD Director is authorized to release assurances when appropriate.

   B.   Acceptable Forms of Assurances

   The following are acceptable forms of assurances . For phased subdivisions, assurances may be provided separately for the improvements necessary for each phase.

      1.   Completion/Performance Bond

      A subdivider may post a completion/performance bond for financial assurances executed by a surety company licensed to do business in the State of Arizona in an amount approved by the PDSD Engineering Administrator. The PDSD Engineering Administrator may sign the bond instrument on behalf of the City , and the City Attorney shall approve same as to form.

      2.   Escrow Account

      A subdivider may establish an escrow account with the City or a bank or similar financial institution acceptable to the City .

      3.   Letter of Credit

      A subdivider may provide an irrevocable letter of credit in a sum approved by the PDSD Engineering Administrator from a bank or other financial institution or person acceptable to the City . The PDSD Engineering Administrator is authorized to sign the agreement on behalf of the City , and the City Attorney’s Office shall approve same as to form.

      4.   Third Party Land Trust

      A subdivider may vest ownership of the property constituting the subdivision in a Third Party Trustee, with direction that the property in trust will not be released for sale by the Trustee unless and until the City agrees to the release. The City will thereafter agree to a full or partial release of trust property as provided in this section and Section 2-09.0.0, Assurances, of the Administrative Manual. The PDSD Engineering Administrator is authorized to sign the agreement on behalf of the City and the City Attorney shall approve same as to form. The Mayor and Council approval of the third party land trust is required if the subdivider deviates from the City \-approved third party land trust documents.

      5.   Alternative Forms of Assurances

      The PDSD Director or designee may accept alternate methods to assure the completion of subdivision improvements where acceptable to the PDSD Director and the City Attorney’s Office in form and substance. Personal checks are not accepted. Mayor and Council approval of the alternate assurance method, agreement, or form(s) is required prior to the approval of the final plat.

   C.   Amount of Assurances

   Except for third party land trust agreements, the PDSD Director or designee may require a monetary amount for assurance of subdivision improvements not to exceed one and two- tenths times the estimated cost of construction of the required improvements .

   D.   Inspection and Acceptance of Improvements for Partial and Final Releases

      1.   The PDSD Director or designee shall provide for inspection of required improvements .

      2.   If the PDSD Director or designee finds upon inspection that any of the required improvements have not been constructed per City approved documents, or have not been constructed in accordance with the City ’s construction standards and specifications, the subdivider shall be responsible for completing or replacing such improvements in accordance with the list of deficiencies, the City accepted specifications, and approved plans, as outlined in this article and Section 2-09.0.0, Assurances, of the Administrative Manual.

      3.   Project completion documentation is required to be submitted for final release as outlined in the PDSD Engineering established procedures in Section 2-09.0.0, Assurances, of the Administrative Manual.

      4.   The City will not accept the required improvements or release or reduce any assurance for a subdivided project requiring sewer, water, or transportation improvements , until the PDSD Director or designee has received statements from the Director or designee of Tucson Water or other water company serving the property, the Tucson Department of Transportation, and the Pima County Regional Wastewater Reclamation Department that such improvements have been satisfactorily completed. Upon such approval and recommendation by the City Manager, the Mayor and Council shall accept the improvements for dedication in accordance with established procedure.

   E.   Partial Release of Assurance

      1.   Partial Release of Subdivision Improvements for Third Party Land Trust

      Where a Third Party Land Trust is provided as assurance for completion of improvements , a partial release of a portion of the subdivision may occur, prior to the completion of all improvements , provided the partial release is proportional to the level of completion of improvements . Requests for release, inspections, and approvals shall be in accordance with Section 2-09.0.0, Assurances, of the Administrative Manual.

         a.   Partial Release of Residential Subdivision  Assurances for Third Party Land Trust

         Up to 75% of the lots held in a third party trust in any particular phase may be released prior to completion and acceptance of the common-element improvements (e.g., basins, drainage facilities, sewer lines, water lines, street  improvements , etc.). Any lot (s) released shall be served by the completed common-element improvements . Once the common-element improvements have been accepted, partial releases greater than 75% or a final release may be granted only when all of the assurable subdivision improvements have been completed, inspected, accepted by the appropriate agency, and the project closure documents have been submitted and accepted by the PDSD Engineering Administrator.

         b.   Commercial Subdivisions for Third Party Land Trust Release

         Up to 60% of the lots in any particular phase may be released prior to the completion and acceptance of the common-element improvements (e.g., basins, drainage facilities, sewer lines, water lines, street  improvements , etc.). Any lot (s) released shall be served by the completed common-element improvements . Once the common-element improvements have been accepted, partial releases greater than 60% or a final release may be granted only when all of the assurable subdivision improvements have been completed, inspected, accepted by the appropriate agency, and the project closure documents have been submitted and accepted by the PDSD Engineering Administrator.

      2.   Reduction or Partial Release of Monetary Assurances

      Where a bond, letter of credit, or other monetary assurance is provided the amount of the assurance may be reduced upon partial completion of construction or actual dedication of one or more improvements , but, only in a ratio that the dedicated improvement(s) bears to the total improvements indicated on the plat. Where a subdivider completes and offers to dedicate the required improvements for a portion of the final plat, monetary assurances for such improvements may be reduced only where the improvements can be used and maintained independently of remaining improvements required for the entire plat. For example, temporary cul-de-sacs should be provided for incomplete streets ; water, sewer, and electric facilities should be capable of independent operation; and adequate access for public safety vehicles shall be provided. In no case may more than 75%, or 65% for commercial projects , of the total monetary value of assurances be released prior to completion of all improvements .

   F.   Substitution of Assurances

   Where a Third Party Land Trust is provided as assurance for completion of improvements , a substitute assurance may be submitted for review. The substitute trust shall include those portions of the subdivision to be covered. Additional substitute assurances may be needed to be in place so that all of the assurable infrastructure that needs completion is covered. The Third Party Trust or other types of assurances may be entirely substituted by another form of assurance using cost estimate procedures based on the remaining improvements with contingency and mobility costs. Acceptance of substitute assurances is solely at the discretion of the PDSD Director . The number of substitutes for any given subdivision may be limited as determined by the PDSD Director .

   G.   Full Release of Assurable Infrastructure

   A final release may be granted only when all of the assurable subdivision improvements have been completed, inspected, accepted by the appropriate agency, and the project closure documents have been submitted and accepted by the PDSD Engineering Administrator.

   H.   Additional Assurances

   Notwithstanding assurances provided, if the PDSD Director , in his sole discretion reasonably determines that grounds exist that could result in commercial insecurity that the required improvements will be completed, he or she may demand additional financial assurances . The neglect or refusal of the subdivider to provide such additional assurances within 30 days shall result in the immediate suspension of the issuance of any permits or further permits unless and until further assurance is provided.

   I.   Expiration or Lapse of Assurances

   If an assurance expires, the PDSD Director shall suspend the issuance of any permit(s) until such time when assurances have been provided. If the PDSD Director determines that any applicable assurances have lapsed, become subject to a bankruptcy or otherwise become ineffective, the PDSD Director reserves the right to issue a stop work order, stop release of additional lots , and utilize the financial assurances to complete the assurable items, or apply monetary penalties as prescribed by law.

##### 8.6.3.   SURVEY MONUMENTS REQUIRED

   The subdivider shall place survey monuments of appropriate type and design delineating the external boundary of the parcel being subdivided, public streets , and all public street intersections within or adjacent to the subdivision , installed in accordance with established practices of the City .

   A.   For subdivisions with tentative plats , the survey monuments shall be installed after the tentative plat approval and before final plat recordation, unless the subdivider has posted assurances with the City to assure the installation of all monuments after recordation.

   B.   Prior to recordation, the minor subdivision documents shall be submitted to identify all monuments (interior and exterior), which an Arizona registered land surveyor has set to show compliance with the approved minor subdivision documents.

##### 8.6.4.   PERMITS FOR MODEL HOMES

   Upon approval of the tentative plat, up to five single-family model homes may be authorized for construction prior to recordation of the final plat, provided:

   A.   Sale or occupancy of an individual unit as a residence does not occur until after recordation of the final plat and the City ’s release of assurances for improvements ; and,

   B.   The location of each unit is based on the lot configuration approved for the tentative plat at one unit per proposed lot .

##### 8.6.5.   LAND CLEARING AND SUBDIVISION  GRADING

   A.   Land clearing or grading may begin after grading plans are approved, provided the plans are prepared in compliance with an approved tentative plat and such tentative plat is in conformance with the underlying zoning. Mass graded subdivisions include grading of all the platted lots and other subdivision improvements by the developer. Custom graded lot  subdivisions include the road improvements that guarantee access to each lot , and other subdivision improvements where access to a future building pad is feasible for each lot .

   B.   Grading plans may be submitted for review prior to approval of the tentative plat in accordance with Section 2-06.4.9.M, Grading Plan, of the Administrative Manual and Section 2-01.0.0, Excavating and Grading, of the Technical Standards Manual, but cannot be approved until after the tentative plat has been approved.

   C.   Concurrent review of a grading plan and a tentative plat may be permitted when submitting a development package in accordance with Section 2-06.0.0 of the Administrative Manual.

   D.   When applicable, phased grading information shall be provided on the tentative plat and grading plan.

##### 8.6.6.   PLAT  ABANDONMENT

   A recorded plat that is filed for the purpose of abandoning the plat, meaning reverting to the configuration of land previously subdivided, or vacating streets or easements previously dedicated to the public; or vacating or redescribing lot or parcel boundaries previously recorded may be replatted in accordance with Section 8.4.1, Block Plats, if all other criteria of Section 8.4.1.E, Criteria, are met. Otherwise, the plat shall be replatted in accordance with Sections 8.4.4, Tentative Plat, and 8.4.5, Final Plats.

