#### 11.3.   DEFINITIONS OF LAND USE GROUPS, CLASSES, AND TYPES

##### 11.3.1.    PURPOSE AND PROVISIONS

   These provisions classify land uses into categories to identify different activities within the City . Any activity conducted on a property located within the City is considered to be a land use. The categories of land use that refer to a primary activity, such as Residential or Industrial, are called Land Use Groups. Each Land Use Group is further divided into more specific listings based on their similarity of functional characteristics, such as Food and Beverage Sales or Vehicle Rental and Sales. These specific uses are referred to as Land Use Classes. In some cases, a Land Use Class may be further divided into more specific land uses called Land Use Types. Land uses listed within a specific Land Use Group, Class, or Type are not listed in any other Land Use Group, Class, or Type.

   A.   Typical Headings and Uses

   Typical uses cited in the description of each Land Use Class are not intended to be exclusive or restrictive. Reference is made to the description of the Land Use Class in determining whether or not a certain use is included within a particular Land Use Class.

   B.   Determination of Appropriate Land Use Class

   Where a specific use does not conform to the wording of any Land Use Class description or conforms to the wording of two or more Land Use Class descriptions, the Zoning Administrator shall determine the most appropriate Land Use Class for that use. Such a determination is an administrative decision.

##### 11.3.2.    AGRICULTURAL USE GROUP

   The Agricultural Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve the commercial production of crops and animals . The following Land Use Classes comprise the Agricultural Use Group.

   A.   Animal Production

   The keeping, grazing, feeding, or breeding of animals by the property owner or occupant for commercial gain. Typical uses include horse ranches and dairy, poultry, and rabbit farms.

   B.   Community Garden

   An area of land operated not-for-profit to grow and harvest food crops primarily for the use of its members who typically cultivate individual garden plots.

   C.   Crop Production

   The growing and harvesting of agricultural products to provide food, fiber, or horticultural vegetation for ornamental purposes, or any combination of these uses. Typical uses include the growing of field crops, fruit and nut orchards, nurseries, and greenhouse operations.

   D.   General Farming

   Any combination of Animal and Crop Production.

   E.   Stockyard Operation

   The temporary confinement of livestock in conjunction with their transport, fattening, or auctioning on a wholesale or retail basis. Typical uses include feedlots and cattle pens.

   F.   Urban Farm

   The growing and harvesting of agricultural products to provide food, fiber, or horticultural vegetation for ornamental purposes in a non-residential area. Typical uses include aquaponic farms and hydroponic crop production, nurseries, greenhouses, and commercial gardens .

(Am. Ord. 11328, 12/8/2015)

##### 11.3.3.    CIVIC USE GROUP

   The Civic Use Group includes Land Use Classes and Land Use Types that primarily involve public services. The following Land Use Classes and Land Use Types comprise the Civic Use Group.

   A.   Cemetery

   Land used or dedicated for the interment of the dead.

   B.   Civic Assembly

   An establishment used to hold meetings, conventions or trade fairs, exhibitions, or other community, social, and multipurpose uses. Typical uses include convention centers, neighborhood centers, and community centers.

   C.   Correctional Use

   The monitoring and control of the offender population, including persons on pretrial status, on prerelease status, or persons incarcerated to serve a sentence. The Correctional Use Land Use Class is divided into the following three land use types:

      1.   Supervision Facility

      A community-based Correctional Use that provides transitional housing, assistance with employment, counseling, and other services to offenders who are placed in a Supervision Facility under terms of probation, parole, or pretrial status. Offenders assigned to a Supervision Facility are generally allowed to leave the facility for off-site employment, job training, or other purposes as permitted by the operators of the facility.

      2.   Custodial Facility

      A community-based Correctional Use that provides a custodial residential setting, assistance with employment, counseling, or other services for offenders sentenced to such a facility in lieu of prison or placed in such a facility as part of a prerelease program. Offenders placed in a Custodial Facility are generally allowed to leave the facility but are monitored in their activities by staff. A facility in this subclass is not designed to be a secure facility.

      3.   Jail or Prison

      A Correctional Use that provides for the incarceration or detention of offenders serving a sentence as required under the City , county , state , or federal criminal justice system. A Jail or Prison is a secure place or building designed for the incarceration of offenders who are sentenced to a period of time under confinement.

   D.   Cultural Use

   The collection and display of objects having literary, artistic, historic, natural, historic or scientific value for public appreciation. Typical uses include museums, libraries, botanical gardens , zoos, nature reserves, and wildlife refuges.

   E.   Educational Use

   Provides a student with instruction through a course or group of courses. Educational Uses are divided into the following land use types:

      1.   Elementary and Secondary Schools

      Provides primary and secondary education for grades kindergarten through 12, as required by the Arizona State Board of Education. Typical uses include elementary, middle, junior high, and high schools.

      2.   Postsecondary Institution

      Provides academic, professional, business, technical, or industrial education beyond grade 12, leading to a degree or entry into a paid occupation. Typical uses include community colleges and universities and business, career, beauty, and trade schools.

      3.   Instructional School

      Provides domestic, recreational, and other types of instruction for all age groups. Typical uses include dance, cooking, music, martial arts, and handicraft instruction.

   F.   Membership Organization

   A philanthropic, social, business or fraternal organization. Typical uses include labor unions, boys’ and girls’ clubs, and veterans’ organizations.

   G.   Postal Service

   Letter and parcel delivery service. Typical uses include postal stations.

   H.   Protective Service

   Provides protection of the public health, safety, and welfare. Typical uses include police, fire, and ambulance services.

   I.   Religious Use

   Assembly for religious worship. Typical uses include churches, synagogues, and temples.

(Am. Ord. 11257, 4/21/2015)

##### 11.3.4. COMMERCIAL SERVICES USE GROUP

   The Commercial Services Use Group includes Land Use Classes that permit facilities for the buying or selling of commodities or services, such as consulting, technical, transportation, and repair services. The following Land Use Classes, Land Use Types, and examples comprise the Commercial Services Use Group.

   A.   Administrative and Professional Office

   Provides administrative, consulting, management, and professional services to businesses and individuals. Typical uses include legal services, real estate firms, travel agencies, security and commodity brokers, and employment services.

   B.   Alcoholic Beverage Service (Bar)

   The retail sale of alcoholic beverages , such as beer, wine, and liquor, for consumption on the premises. Typical uses include cocktail lounges, taverns, and bars. Refer to the definition of Food Service to differentiate between an Alcoholic Beverage Service use (bar) that serves food and a Food Service use (restaurant) which serves alcoholic beverages .

      1.   Bar, Large

      A bar that encompasses 18,000 square feet or more of total area, including gross floor area and any outside areas providing service to the public, such as outdoor seating and recreation areas.

   C.   Animal Service

   The boarding, training, or grooming of animals , including short-term medical treatment. Typical uses include boarding kennels, dog training services, pet grooming shops, and veterinary clinics.

   D.   Artisan Residence

   A structure or portion of a structure used as both a residential dwelling for an artist and any artistic nonresidential use permitted in the zoning district in which the unit is located. The residential use and the artistic nonresidential use must be conducted by the same artist. The dwelling unit may not be separately leased.

   E.   Automotive - Service and Repair

   Servicing and repairing automobiles, motorcycles, or utility vehicles, such as pickup trucks and vans generally used as personal vehicles.

      1.   Automotive - Minor Service and Repair

      Minor maintenance that involves operations that do not create excessive noise, such as auto washing, lubrication, and oil changing.

      2.   Automotive - Major Service and Repair

      Major maintenance or repair services. Typical uses include muffler, brake, tune-up, stereo, alarm, air conditioning, and tire installation shops; general repair shops; service departments of dealerships; and automotive engine and transmission rebuilders.

      3.   Automotive Washing - Full Service

      An establishment where personnel are used to wash, dry, polish, or vacuum an automobile.

      4.   Automotive Washing - Self Service

      An establishment where the washing, drying, polishing, or vacuuming of an automobile is done by the driver or the occupant.

   F.   Billboard

   An off-site sign relating to a business, activity, use, or service conducted off the site or a product not sold on the site .

   G.   Building and Grounds Maintenance

   Provides maintenance or custodial services for buildings and properties. Typical uses include janitorial, landscaping , carpet cleaning, and window cleaning services.

   H.   Commercial Recreation

   A commercial establishment for use by the general public or a private club for members only used for participatory recreational activities. Spectator events at a Commercial Recreation use are incidental . Typical uses include athletic clubs, gymnasiums, tennis courts, and indoor shooting ranges.

   I.   Communications

   The general transmission or reception of signals as specifically regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) for the transfer of verbal or visual information in an analog or digital mode. Typical uses include radio and television broadcasting stations and telecommunication service centers.

      1.   Communication, Wireless

      A commercial system designed and operated for the transmission and reception of signals to and from multiple transmitter locations to multiple reception locations. Typical uses include cellular telephone, personal communication service (PCS), enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), and paging services.

   J.   Construction Service

   Provides construction activity to be performed at a construction site and may include related work being performed on shop premises. Typical uses include construction companies, carpentry services, and plumbing services.

   K.   Day Care

   A use providing care, supervision, planned activities, or guidance on a regular basis for periods of less than 24 hours for persons not related to the operator. This includes adult day care and child care.

      1.   Adult Day Care

      A Day Care for elderly or disabled adults.

      2.   Child Care

      A Day Care for children 14 years old or younger who are not related to the operator. Typical uses include child care centers, preschools, nursery schools, and before- and after-school programs.

   L.   Entertainment

   A spectator use for the presentation of the performing arts, including indoor motion picture theaters, theaters for live performances, or indoor and outdoor concert halls.

      1.   Large Dance Hall  
  
      A use that is 18,000 square feet or more of total area, including gross floor area and any outside areas providing service to the public, such as outdoor seating and recreation areas, that has a dance floor(s) that is over 25% of the area. Dance halls less than 18,000 square feet of total area are governed by the standards applicable to the Entertainment Use and not those applicable to Large Dance Halls.

   M.   Financial Service

   The management or exchange of money and assets, or other fiduciary services. Typical uses include banks, credit unions, and savings and loan associations, and non-chartered financial institutions , such as check cashing and payday loan businesses.

   N.   Food Service

   The preparation and sale of food primarily for consumption as a meal on or off premises. Typical uses include restaurants, coffee shops, cafeterias, and fast food establishments. To differentiate between a Food Service use (restaurant) that serves alcoholic beverages and an Alcoholic Beverage Service use (bar) that serves food, refer to the definition of restaurant.

      1.   Food Court

         A unified establishment which serves food and beverages for consumption on or off the premises from multiple eateries or vendors. Food Courts may be developed to include any combination of indoor or outdoor operations. A commercial kitchen , exclusively for use by the vendors on location at the food court, is permitted provided it meets all applicable state and local health and safety standards, as well as all relevant requirements of the UDC.

      2.   Restaurant

      A commercial establishment in which the principal use is the preparation and sale of food and beverages. A restaurant by any other name, such as, but not limited to, coffee shop, cafeteria, fast food restaurant, or diner, is regulated as a restaurant.

      3.   Soup Kitchen

      A Food Service use that provides free meals for consumption on or off site .

   O.   Funeral Service

   The preparation of the dead for interment or cremation and the holding of funeral services. This category includes funeral homes, undertaking establishments, and crematories.

   P.   Medical Service - Extended Health Care

   Provides lodging, meals , treatment, or personal care on a long-term basis to individuals who, by reason of advanced age, chronic illness, or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves. Typical uses include nursing homes and hospices.

   Q.   Medical Service - Major

   Provides inpatient medical care which may also include outpatient service as an ancillary activity. Typical uses include hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, and detoxification centers.

   R.   Medical Service - Outpatient

   Provides outpatient physical or mental health services. Services may be of a preventive, diagnostic, treatment, therapeutic, rehabilitative, or counseling nature. Typical uses include medical and dental offices, health clinics, counseling services, and emergency care centers.

      1.   Blood Donor Center

      A Medical Service that engages in the business or activity of receiving or taking plasma, blood, or any component thereof from human donors.

   S.   Parking

   A site where the principal use is for the off-street parking of motor vehicles, whether for compensation, free, or as accommodation to clients or customers. Typical uses include parking garages and parking lots for residential or commercial purposes.

   T.   Personal Service

   Provides personal care or appearance services to an individual or provides the cleaning or repair of personal effects. Typical uses include barber and beauty shops, tailors, nail salons, shoe repair shops, dry cleaning collection agencies, laundromats, massage establishments, nail salons, and reducing salons.

   U.   Research and Product Development

   The conducting of research of a commercial, industrial, or scientific nature, including analytic, diagnostic, processing, and other types of laboratory services. Typical uses include assaying, commercial testing, and engineering laboratories.

   V.   Smoke Shop

   Any establishment in which the area used for sales or display of tobacco products consists of fifteen (15) percent or more of the total sales area of the space.

      1.   Tobacco Product

         a.   Any product made or derived from tobacco or that contains nicotine and is intended for human consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, chewing tobacco, shisha, snuff, snus, and liquid nicotine solution; and

         b.   Any component, accessory, instrument, or paraphernalia that is used in the consumption of a tobacco product or that is solely designed for the smoking or ingesting of tobacco or shisha, including a hookah, water pipe, filter, rolling papers, pipe, or electronic smoking device; except that:

         c.   The term "tobacco product" does not include drugs, devices, or combination products, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration.

   W.   Technical Service

   Service of a technical nature provided to businesses and individuals. Typical uses include printing establishments, blueprint companies, photocopy companies, commercial art studios, recording studios, and computer access centers.

   X.   Trade Service and Repair, Major

   The maintenance, repair, or reconstruction of heavy equipment, machinery, large trucks, buses, or other similar vehicles and their component parts. The fabrication of parts and products on an individual basis is permitted. Typical uses include farm machinery repair services, body work and painting of automobiles and similar vehicles, and welding shops.

   Y.   Trade Service and Repair, Minor

   The service or repair of appliances and other similar utility items for business or personal use. Typical uses include appliance repair, jewelry repair, reupholstery, locksmith, burglar alarm repair, and stereo and television repair shops.

   Z.   Transportation Service, Air Carrier

   Involves the landing or taking off of aircraft and may provide for passenger and freight transportation by air. The use may include associated terminal and service facilities. Aircraft include airplanes, helicopters, gliders, dirigibles, blimps, and ultralights. The facilities may be for commercial or recreational use. Typical uses include private and public airports , heliports and helipads, gliderports, and ultralight fields.

      1.   Airport Authority

      Provides for aeronautical and multiple associated uses conducted under the direction and control of a statutorily created airport authority, such as pursuant to A.R.S. § 28-8423; 28-8424, at a facility not less than 2,000 acres in size located within an adopted airport environs overlay or a designated planning area shown in a master plan adopted by the airport authority's board of directors.

      2.   Ultralight Airpark

      An airport used by the general public or an ultralight flying club for ultralight aircraft operation.

   AA.   Transportation Service, Land Carrier

   Provides local or regional passenger or freight transportation by bus, rail, vehicle, or truck with terminal and service facilities. Typical uses include bus stations, trucking companies, and taxicab services.

   BB.   Travelers’ Accommodation, Campsite

   Provides overnight accommodation for recreational vehicles or tents on a temporary basis. Typical uses include recreational vehicle parks.

      1.   Recreational Vehicle (R.V.) Park

      A parcel of land under single ownership, where one or more spaces are rented, leased, or held out for rent or lease to persons for occupancy of recreational vehicles.

   CC.   Travelers’ Accommodation, Lodging

   Provides rooms for the temporary lodging of travelers. Typical uses include bed and breakfast inns, hotels, motels, inns, resorts, and guest ranches.

(Am. Ord. 11171, 5/20/2014; Am. Ord. 11577, 8/8/2018; Am. Ord. 12057, 11/14/2023; Am. Ord. 12060, 11/28/2023)

##### 11.3.5. INDUSTRIAL USE GROUP

   The Industrial Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve the on-site production of goods by mechanical or chemical transformation of materials or substances and packaging. The following Land Use Classes and examples comprise the Industrial Use Group.

   A.   Craftwork

   Any business establishment that produces on the premises articles for sale of artistic quality or effect or handmade workmanship. Examples include candle making, glass blowing, weaving, pottery making, woodworking, sculpting, painting, and other associated activities.

   B.   Extraction

   The surface or subsurface mining or withdrawal of metallic or nonmetallic minerals, oil, gas, or other forms of energy and resources.

   C.   General Manufacturing

   The assembling, finishing, or compounding of preprocessed materials into a finished product or component. Typical uses include the assembly of furniture, cloth goods, and plastic goods and the compounding of chemicals not otherwise classified as hazardous materials.

   D.   Hazardous Material Manufacturing

   The synthesis, compounding, or manufacture of explosive, highly combustible, corrosive, toxic, highly oxidizing, or radioactive substances, either as a finished product, as part of a process, or as part of the finished product. Typical uses include the compounding of acid, ammunition manufacturing, the compounding of pesticides, and the manufacture of explosives and fireworks.

   E.   Heavy Equipment Manufacturing

   The assembling or finishing of heavy machinery or equipment, such as automobiles, utility vehicles, aircraft, farming equipment, and utility trailers. Typical uses include auto assembly plants and tractor works.

   F.   Motion Picture Industry

   The production of motion pictures including soundstages, outdoor sets, incidental storage, and service facilities.

   G.   Perishable Goods Manufacturing

   The processing and packaging of food products and other goods that are susceptible to spoilage or decay. Typical uses include meat packing operations, breweries and wineries, canneries, and bottling plants.

      1.   Microbrewery

      A Perishable Goods Manufacturing use that produces beer, in the amount between 10,000 and 310,000 gallons annually.

   H.   Precision Manufacturing

   The manufacturing, production, or assembly of electronic or precision instruments and products. Typical uses include the manufacturing of scientific, medical, measuring, and optical instruments; audio and video equipment; electronic devices and systems; and watches.

   I.   Primary Manufacturing

   The forging, casting, forming, extruding, or conversion of basic materials used ultimately in the construction, assembly, or fabrication of final products. Typical uses include foundries, textile and paper mills, sawmills, batch plants, and brickyards.

   J.   Processing and Cleaning

   Provides dry cleaning, dyeing, laundering, or rug cleaning services. Typical uses include dry cleaning plants, diaper services, and linen supply services.

   K.   Refining

   The purifying of a crude substance into a basic material used in manufacturing processes. Typical uses include the smelting or converting of ores and petroleum refining.

   L.   Salvaging and Recycling

   The reclamation and recovery of used materials and the processing of discarded scrap materials for commercial purposes. Typical uses include auto salvage yards, junkyards, paper salvage operations, and household goods donation centers.

      1.   Household Goods Donation Center

      A principal use consisting of a staffed facility at which donated consumer goods are accepted, handled, and temporarily stored before transport to a resale center. When used in conjunction with a retail store, both uses are considered principal uses .

##### 11.3.6.    RECREATION USE GROUP

   The Recreation Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve sports and activities with emphasis on participant sports and recreation. The following Land Use Classes comprise the Recreation Use Group.

   A.   Golf Course

   A tract of land for playing golf, improved with tees, greens, fairways, and hazards.

   B.   Parks and Recreation

   A noncommercial, not-for-profit facility designed for active or passive recreation uses, such as neighborhood parks, community parks, regional parks, and special use facilities. Such facilities may include ballfields, swimming pools, tennis courts, and playground equipment. Commercial amusement facilities, such as water slides and miniature golf courses, are not considered to be parks.

      1.   Regional Park

      A park that has at least 15 acres and provides facilities such a pool, soccer fields, baseball fields, basketball court, recreation center, concert stage or other such facilities for regional recreational uses.

   C.   Open Space

   Any area of land, essentially unimproved and not occupied by structures or manmade impervious surfaces, that is set aside, dedicated , or reserved in perpetuity for public or private enjoyment as a preservation or conservation area. In addition, open space includes those areas revegetated or restored with native vegetation in a natural manner consistent with the character of the Sonoran Desert.

##### 11.3.7.    RESIDENTIAL USE GROUP

   The Residential Use Group includes Land Use Classes and Land Use Types that are residential on a nontransient basis. The following Land Use Classes, Land Use Types, and examples constitute the Residential Use Group.

   A.   Family Dwelling

   The occupancy (habitation) of a permanent structure or structures on a lot or parcel by one or more individuals holding the dwelling unit under common property rights, living together as a single household , and using common cooking facilities . Typical uses include attached or detached dwellings and single-family or multiple-family dwellings.

      1.   Duplex

      A building containing two dwelling units on a single lot or parcel . May be attached or detached.

      2.   Manufactured Housing

      A multisectional mobile home dwelling manufactured after June 15, 1976, to standards established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development that has external dimensions of at least 24 feet by 40 feet and is installed on a permanent foundation. A manufactured housing unit is considered equivalent to a single-family dwelling. To be considered a manufactured housing unit under this UDC , a wall must be installed continuously, except for ventilation and access, along the entire perimeter of the unit between the unit and the ground to give it the appearance of a site -built house. The wall must be of masonry construction or similar material. The tongue, axles, transporting lights, and towing apparatus must be removed before occupancy.

      3.   Middle Housing

      A building or buildings with two to four dwelling units on a site , including townhomes, excluding Accessory Dwelling Units .

      4.   Multifamily Development

      Any residential development consisting of three or more dwelling units on an integrated site or single lot .

      5.   Single-Family Dwelling, Attached

      A dwelling unit attached on a horizontal plane to one or more dwelling units by structural elements common to the attached units. Each dwelling unit is located on its own individual lot or separated by a line denoting a separate ownership of each unit. The structural elements include common wall construction, roof, or other similar improvement. Elements such as trellises, beams, and patio walls are not included. The interior perimeter yard between units in a unified development may be reduced to 0 (zero) feet.

      6.   Single-Family Dwelling, Detached

      A dwelling unit that is not attached to any other dwelling unit by any structural elements, surrounded by open space and located on its own separate lot .

      7.   Accessory Dwelling

      A dwelling unit that is either: (a) detached, located on a lot with a primary single-family dwelling, or (b) attached to a single-family dwelling. Accessory dwelling units are independent units and may include a kitchen, bedrooms , bathrooms, and a sitting room.

   B.   Group Dwelling

   The residential occupancy of a permanent structure by five or more unrelated persons or by one or more individuals where the individual or group of individuals has the exclusive right of occupancy of a bedroom . Typical uses include fraternities; sororities; convents; dormitories; college student rentals; rooming and boarding; boarding houses, not primarily for travelers; and apartments where individual bedrooms are separately leased. Related persons include persons related by blood, marriage, domestic partnership as defined in Tucson City Code Chapter 17, Article IX or a legal custodial relationship.

      1.   Fraternity or Sorority

      A building housing five or more student residents belonging to an organization created for scholastic, professional, or extracurricular activities, associated or formally organized for a common purpose. These organizations are typically recognized by universities as legally chartered fraternities or sororities.

   C.   Mobile Home Dwelling

   A nonmotorized dwelling, transportable in one or more sections, constructed on a permanent chassis with wheels, suitable for year-round residential occupancy and requiring the same method of water supply, waste disposal, and electrical service as a site -built dwelling. Mobile home does not mean a recreational vehicle . Manufactured housing units that do not meet the criteria provided in Section 11.3.7.A.5, Manufactured Housing, and house trailers are considered mobile home dwellings.

      1.   Mobile Home Park

      A development comprised of three or more mobile homes or manufactured housing units, or both dwelling types, that are designed to function as a residential community. The entire development may be owned by a single entity and rented to individual users or have multiple ownership with each mobile home space sold to individual property owners. The park may or may not have commonly-owned facilities.

   D.   Residential Care Services

   Residential facilities that provide lodging, meals , and treatment to persons who are unable to be cared for as part of a single household . This use includes group homes and institutional living arrangements with 24 hour care. Residential Care Services are divided into the following land use types: Adult Care Service; Physical and Behavioral Health Service; Rehabilitation Service; and Shelter Care. The land use types are exclusive of each other.

      1.   Adult Care Service

      A Residential Care Service providing lodging, meals , supervision, and other support services to elderly or physically disabled individuals not related to the owner/manager of the facility. Typical uses include adult care homes, adult care facilities, and supervisory care facilities.

      2.   Physical and Behavioral Health Service

      A Residential Care Service providing lodging, meals , treatment, counseling, and supervision to persons with behavioral disorders or developmental disabilities or to physically disabled individuals not related to the owner/manager of the facility. Typical uses include group homes for the developmentally disabled, group homes for the seriously mentally ill , specialized treatment homes, group foster homes, and recovery homes for substance abusers. This category does not include facilities used for penal or correctional purposes or for adjudicated delinquents other than status offenders .

      3.   Rehabilitation Service

      A Residential Care Service providing lodging, meals , counseling, treatment, and rehabilitation to adjudicated delinquents.

      4.   Shelter Care

      A Residential Care Service providing lodging on a temporary basis, meals , and counseling to homeless persons , pregnant teenagers, victims of domestic violence, and children who need full-time supervision, including those who are neglected, runaways, or status offenders .

(Am. Ord. 11890, 12/7/2021; Am. Ord. 11996, 3/21/2023; Am. Ord. 12219, 12/16/2025)

##### 11.3.8.    RESTRICTED ADULT ACTIVITIES USE GROUP

   The Restricted Adult Activities Use Group classifies activities that provide entertainment and/or goods depicting, describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities ” or characterized by emphasis on depiction, description, or relation to “specified anatomical areas .” The following Land Use Classes comprise the Restricted Adult Activities Use Group.

   A.   Adult Commercial Services

   All Land Use Classes within the Commercial Services Use Group that depict, describe, or relate to “specified sexual activities ” or are characterized by emphasis on depiction, description, or relation to “specified anatomical areas ,” as defined in Section 11.4.20, Definitions - S. Typical uses include adult model studios, adult massage parlors, adult motels, and adult theaters.

   B.   Adult Industrial Uses

   All Land Use Classes within the Industrial Use Group that depict, describe, or relate to “specified sexual activities ” or are characterized by emphasis on depiction, description, or relation to “specified anatomical areas ,” defined in Section 11.4 below. Typical uses include adult motion picture productions.

   C.   Adult Recreation

   All Land Use Classes within the Recreation Use Group that depict, describe, or relate to “specified sexual activities ” or are characterized by emphasis on depiction, description, or relation to “specified anatomical areas ,” defined in Section 11.4 below. Typical uses include adult arcades, body painting studios, and legally permitted sexual encounter establishments.

   D.   Adult Retail Trade

   All Land Use Classes within the Retail Trade Use Group that depict, describe, or relate to “specified sexual activities ” or are characterized by emphasis on depiction, description, or relation to “specified anatomical areas ,” defined in Section 11.4 below. Typical uses include adult bookstores.

##### 11.3.9.    RETAIL TRADE USE GROUP

   The Retail Trade Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve the selling, leasing, or renting of merchandise to the general public. The following Land Use Classes and examples comprise the Retail Trade Use Group.

   A.   Construction Material Sales

   The sale of lumber or other building materials. Typical uses include lumberyards, fence companies, and brick and block sales.

   B.   Food and Beverage Sales

   The retail sale of food or beverages for consumption off the premises, such as bakeries, butcher shops, grocery stores, and liquor stores.

      1.   Farmers’ Market

      A public or privately operated open-air establishment that allows the selling of agricultural products such as fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, herbs, nuts, flowers, nursery stock, animal food products such as eggs, honey, meat, milk, cheese, other dairy products and fish, as well as non-edible bee products and handcrafted items. The predominant sales area must be for food products.

   C.   General Merchandise Sales

   The selling, leasing, or renting of commonly used merchandise for personal or household use and the providing of services incidental to the selling, leasing, or renting of goods. Typical uses include department and variety stores, automotive accessories and new parts stores, fuel and lubricant sales, apparel stores, drugstores, florists, furniture stores, pet stores, and video tape rental and sales.

      1.   Home Improvement Center

      A facility of more than 30,000 square feet gross floor areas engaged in the retail sale of various basic hardware lines, such as tools, builders hardware, paint and glass, plumbing and electrical supplies, housewares and household appliances, garden supplies, and cutlery.

      2.   Retail Establishment, Large

      A retail establishment (General Merchandise Sales), a retail grocery establishment (Food and Beverage Sales), or an establishment with a combination of both uses, comprised of more than 100,000 square feet of floor area , that includes gross floor area and any outside area which provides associated services to the public, such as, but not limited to, outdoor merchandise display, snack bars, etc. The floor area does not include motor vehicle parking or loading areas . For the purposes of determining the applicability of the 100,000 square foot  floor area maximum, the aggregate square footage of all adjacent stores, that share checkstands, management, a controlling ownership interest, and storage areas, are considered one establishment, e.g., a plant nursery associated with a general merchandise store, such as a home improvement store.

      3.   Shopping Center

      A multiple use  development composed of an integrated group of establishments (stores), planned, constructed, and managed as a unit, utilizing common or shared facilities, such as buildings , parking, and vehicular and pedestrian access, where no more than 50% of the floor area is dedicated to uses with a parking formula of one space per 100 square feet of gross floor area or a more intense formula. The individual establishments may be owned by a single entity or by separate entities.

   D.   Heavy Equipment Sales

   The sale, lease, or rental of heavy vehicles, heavy machinery, aircraft, farming equipment, or utility trailers. Typical uses include the sale of aircraft, commercial vehicles, and construction equipment.

   E.   Medical Marijuana Designated Caregiver Cultivation Location

   A Medical Marijuana Designated Caregiver Cultivation Location or Cultivation by a Designated Caregiver refers to cultivation of Medical Marijuana by a Designated Caregiver and Cardholder whose registration card indicates that the cardholder has been authorized to cultivate marijuana plants for a qualifying patient(s)’ medical use pursuant to The Arizona Medical Marijuana Act, A.R.S. § 36-2804.04.A.7. (Ord. No. 10850, § 6, 11/23/10)

   F.   Marijuana Dispensary

   A Marijuana Dispensary refers to the following:

      1.   "Nonprofit Medical Marijuana Dispensary" as set forth in The Arizona Medical Marijuana Act, A.R.S. § 36-2801.11.

      2.   "Dual Licensee" as set forth in The Arizona Smart and Safe Act, A.R.S. § 36-2850.9.

      3.   "Marijuana Establishment", as set forth in the Arizona Smart and Safe Act, A.R.S. § 36-2850.21(a).

   G.   Marijuana Dispensary Off-site Cultivation Location

   A Marijuana Dispensary Off Site Cultivation Location means the additional location, if any, where marijuana may be cultivated for the use of a Marijuana Dispensary as disclosed pursuant to The Arizona Medical Marijuana Act, A.R.S. § 36-2804.B.1.b.ii and/or The Arizona Smart and Safe Act, A.R.S. § 36-2850.21(a).

   H.   Marijuana Dispensary Off-site Manufacturing Location

   A Marijuana Dispensary Off-site Manufacturing Location is the additional location, if any, where marijuana may be manufactured for the use of a Marijuana Dispensary as disclosed pursuant to The Arizona Smart and Safe Act, A.R.S. § 36-2850.15.

   I.   Medical Marijuana Qualifying Patient Cultivation Location

   A Medical Marijuana Qualifying Patient Cultivation Location shall mean cultivation of medical marijuana by a qualifying patient pursuant to The Arizona Medical Marijuana Act, A.R.S. §36-2801.1.a.ii, but shall only include a Qualifying Patient who is also a Cardholder, authorized to cultivate marijuana plants pursuant to the provisions of A.R.S. §36-2804.02.A.3.f.

   J.   Swap Meets and Auctions

   Occasional or periodic commercial activities held in an open area or enclosed  structure where: 1) groups of sellers rent space on a short-term basis to display, barter, or sell goods to the public and at least 50% of swap meet space does not occupy the same allotted area on an uninterrupted, continuous, daily basis for the purpose of display and sale, exchange, or barter of merchandise, exclusive of occasional craft fairs and benefit sales held on public property; or 2) one or more sellers bring goods for auctioning to the public. Typical uses include swap meets, flea markets, and auctions.

   K.   Vehicle Rental and Sales

   The sale, lease, and/or rental of automobiles, motorcycles, noncommercial trucks, boats, vans, motor homes, trailers, or other recreational vehicles. Typical uses include automobile and truck dealers and rental agencies.

(Am. Ord. 11328, 12/8/2015; Am. Ord. 11828, 4/6/2021; Am. Ord. 11978, 12/20/2022)

##### 11.3.10. STORAGE USE GROUP

   The Storage Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve on-site keeping of trade and personal goods. The following Land Use Classes constitute the Storage Use Group.

   A.   Commercial Storage

   The keeping of trade or personal goods by business and industrial establishments. Typical uses include cold storage plants, warehouses, data storage facilities, and utility storage yards.

   B.   Hazardous Material Storage

   The keeping of explosive, highly combustible, corrosive, toxic, highly oxidizing, or radioactive materials . Typical uses include storage for distribution of petroleum products.

   C.   Personal Storage

   The renting or leasing of space for storage of personal effects. Typical uses include multiple unit storage facilities or miniwarehouses.

##### 11.3.11. UTILITIES USE GROUP

   The Utilities Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve the generation, transmission, and/or distribution of basic services, such as sanitation, water, gas, and electrical services. The following Land Use Classes constitute the Utilities Use Group.

   A.   Distribution System

   The dispensing or transforming of basic services, such as gas, electricity, or water, from one part of an interconnected system to another. Typical uses include electric substations, gas distribution substations, and water wells.

   B.   Generating System

   A facility that produces energy. Typical uses include electrical generating plants.

   C.   Renewable Energy Generation

   A principal use producing commercial power from natural resources, such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, and geothermal heat, that are renewable (naturally replenished). Typical uses are solar, geothermal, natural or methane gases, and wind power.

   D.   Sanitation System

   The collection, disposal, or treatment of waste materials. Typical uses include sewage pumping stations, sanitary landfills, sewage treatment facilities, and hazardous material treatment facilities.

   E.   Transmission Lines

   Transportation facilities for the conveyance of commodities other than petroleum. Utility lines include facilities for the transmission of electrical energy for sale, including transmission lines for a public utility company. Also includes telephone, telegraph, cable television and other communications transmission facilities utilizing direct physical conduits. Does not include offices, service centers, or distribution substations.

(Am. Ord. 11942, 7/12/2022)

##### 11.3.12. WHOLESALING USE GROUP

   The Wholesaling Use Group includes Land Use Classes that involve the selling of trade goods, supplies, or equipment to retailers, businesses, or other wholesalers for their use or resale at retail. The following Land Use Classes comprise the Wholesaling Use Group.

   A.   Business Supply and Equipment Wholesaling

   The selling of goods, supplies, or equipment to commercial service or retail trade establishments. Typical uses include wholesale distributors of trade goods and service products, such as medical and restaurant equipment and supplies.

   B.   Construction/Heavy Equipment Wholesaling

   The selling of large motor vehicles, equipment, machinery, or construction materials to other businesses. Typical uses include construction and farm equipment distributors.

   C.   Food and Beverage Wholesaling

   The selling of food or beverage products to other businesses. Typical uses include produce companies and beverage distributors.

   D.   Hazardous Material Wholesaling

   The selling to other businesses materials that are explosive, highly combustible, corrosive, toxic, highly oxidizing, or radioactive. Typical uses include petroleum supply and distribution of hazardous chemicals.

