#### 3.11.   ADMINISTRATIVE MODIFICATIONS

##### 3.11.1.   DESIGN DEVELOPMENT OPTION (DDO)

   A.   Purpose

   This section is established to provide an administrative process by which specific development and dimensional standards of the UDC may be modified under certain criteria applicable to a land use within a zone . A Design Development Option (DDO) is intended to encourage the following:

   B.   Applicability

   The following dimensional, screening, and landscaping standards may be considered for modification under this Section:

      1.   Setbacks ;

      2.   Height of accessory walls and fences when the wall and fence heights do not exceed two feet above the maximum height permitted;

      3.   Landscaping and screening standards when the modification does not decrease the required area in square footage of landscaping or height of a screening feature; and,

      4.   Structural setback and parking space length requirements for carports only in single-family and middle housing development .

   C.   PDSD Review and Decision

      1.   The PDSD Director shall review and make a final decision on a DDO in accordance with Section 3.3.4, 100' Notice Procedure. Approval of a DDO request may only occur based on the findings in Section 3.11.1.D below.

      2.   For landscaping and screening modification requests as provided in Section 3.11.1.B.3 above, the Design Review Board shall review the request and make a recommendation prior to a decision by the PDSD Director .

      3.   Only one application is required when more than one DDO is being requested and may be processed concurrently in accordance with the most restrictive applicable procedure. For example, applications requesting a modification to the setback and landscaping standards shall go to the Design Review Board for a recommendation prior to a decision by the PDSD Director .

   D.   Findings for Approval

      1.   General Findings for All Modification Requests

      For all modification requests, the PDSD Director may approve a DDO request only if the request meets all of the following findings:

         a.   Is not a request previously denied as a variance;

         b.   Does not modify a conditional requirement or finding to determine whether the use should be allowed in the zone ;

         c.   Is not to a condition of approval for a rezoning or Special Exception Land Use application;

         d.   Does not modify a requirement of an overlay zone , such as, but not limited to, Scenic Corridor, Environmental Resource, Major Streets and Routes  Setback , or Airport Environs;

         e.   Does not result in deletion or waiver of a UDC requirement;

         f.   The modification applies to property that cannot be developed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter due to physical circumstances or conditions of the property, such as irregular shape, narrowness of lot , exceptional topographic conditions, or location;

         g.   Does not create a situation where proposed development substantially reduces the amount of privacy that would be enjoyed by nearby residents any more than would be available if the development was built without the modification;

         h.   Does not create a situation where proposed development will block visibility within the required visibility triangle on adjoining  streets for either vehicular or pedestrian traffic;

         i.   Does not create a situation where the proposed development will cause objectionable noise, odors, trespass lighting, or similar adverse impacts adjacent properties or development ; and,

         j.   Does not create a situation where the development will result in an increase in the number of residential dwelling units or the square footage of nonresidential buildings greater than would occur if the development was built without the modification.

      2.   Specific Findings for Setback and Wall Height Modification Requests

      In addition to the findings in Section 3.11.1.D.1, the PDSD Director shall find, in the case of setback and wall height only, that the modification:

         a.   Does not create a situation where proposed development will obstruct significant views of dramatic land forms, unusual stands of vegetation, or parks from nearby properties substantially more than would occur if the development were built without the modification;

         b.   Provides design alternatives to better integrate the development into the design character of the immediate neighborhood;

         c.   Does not apply to a setback requirement of a Flexible Lot Development (FLD);

         d.   Does not create a situation where the proposed development will interfere with the optimum air temperature or solar radiation orientation of buildings on adjoining properties substantially more than would occur if the building or structures were built without the modification; and,

         e.   Does not create a situation where the proposed use of the property will impose objectionable noise levels on adjoining properties greater than would occur if the buildings or structures were built without the modifications.

         f.   The modification is not for an increase in height of more than two feet to an accessory wall or fence, except that an increase of up to four feet may be considered for entry features on walls and fences.

      3.   Specific Finding for Screening Modification Requests

      For screening modifications, in addition to the findings in Section 3.11.1.D.1, the PDSD Director shall make a finding that the modification does not lower the height of a required screening device to a point where it does not accomplish its purpose.

   E.   Appeals

   A party of record may appeal the PDSD Director ’s decision on DDO applications. Appeals are considered by the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Sections 3.10.1 and 3.10.2, Board of Adjustment Appeal Procedure. Appeals must be filed within five days of the effective date of the decision. The complete appeals material must be filed within 30 days of the effective date of the decision. An appeal under this section shall be based upon an error in the Director ’s decision finding compliance or noncompliance with the applicable findings. The Board of Adjustment shall apply the applicable findings as provided in Section 3.11.1D, Findings for Approval, when rendering its decision.

   F.   Expiration of Approval

   Any Design Development Option (DDO) approval granted by the Planning and Development Services Department (PDSD) Director shall be null and void if building permits are not issued implementing the DDO or compliance with conditions of approval does not occur within 180 days from the date of approval. One extension of up to 180 days may be granted by the PDSD Director for good cause.

(Am. Ord. 11070, 5/14/2013; Am. Ord. 11127, 11/6/2013; Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020; Am. Ord. 12219, 12/16/2025)

