#### 5.10.   NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION ZONE (NPZ)

##### 5.10.1.   PURPOSE

   Preserving and enhancing Tucson’s established neighborhoods is critical to conserving the cultural and historic heritage of the City . The purposes of the Neighborhood Preservation Zone (NPZ) are:

   A.   To provide a process for the establishment of NPZ districts to preserve, protect and enhance the unique character and historical resources of established City neighborhoods; and,

   B.   To provide for the creation and establishment of a neighborhood-specific design manual for each NPZ district, containing architectural and design standards and guidelines to ensure that development is compatible with the neighborhood character overall, as well as with the character of the applicable Development Zone .

##### 5.10.2.   ESTABLISHING AN NPZ

   A.   Establishment or Dissolution of, or Amendment to a Neighborhood Preservation Zone

      1.   An NPZ is initiated by the Mayor and Council at their sole discretion.

      2.   An NPZ is established, amended, or dissolved by the Mayor and Council by ordinance in accordance with Section 3.5, Rezoning (Change of Zoning) Procedure.

   B.   Eligibility and Applicability

      1.   The NPZ is an overlay zone superimposed over the development standards of the underlying zoning. The land uses permitted within the NPZ district are those permitted by the underlying zoning;

      2.   Neighborhoods listed on the National Register of Historic Districts, include a National Register Historic District, or are eligible to be listed on the National Register of Historic Districts and have completed a National Historic District Nomination or Eligibility Assessment application are eligible for the NPZ; and,

      3.   An NPZ applies to residential zones only.

   C.   Design Manual

      1.   The Design Manual is created upon initiation of the NPZ district and shall, at a minimum contain the following:

         a.   NPZ District Neighborhood Character

            (1)   Identification of Contributing Properties within the NPZ District;

            (2)   Identification of the defining characteristics of the NPZ district. Such identification may include excerpts or references to those portions of the National Register nomination or eligibility document that summarize the defining characteristics of the district ; and,

            (3)   Illustrations and narratives describing (1) and (2) above.

         b.   NPZ District Map

         The Design Manual shall include a map of the boundaries of the NPZ district showing the Contributing Properties and the boundaries of the National Register District or area eligible for a National Register District.

         c.   Compatibility Review Standards

         The Compatibility Review Standards determine a proposed development ’s compatibility with the contributing properties in the development zone . The basis for the Compatibility Review Standards is the defining characteristics of the National Register Historic District as identified in the district ’s nomination or eligibility document. A description and examples of each of the following elements shall be provided in the Design Manual:

            (1)   Scale and proportion , such as height, bulk and massing, and number of stories;

            (2)   Architectural style and detail, such as roof types, projections and recessions (e.g., porches, awnings, overhangs, steps, and entrances), window sizes and spacing, materials, and surface texture and colors;

            (3)   Spatial relationships and site utilization , such as spacing between adjacent  buildings , front and rear side setbacks , open spaces , attachments (e.g., carports and garages ), and outbuildings; and,

            (4)   Landscaping . Landscaping shall only be reviewed for compatibility when a project proposes a comprehensive change to the streetscape such as the construction of a new residential unit.

         d.   Privacy Mitigation Measures

         The Design Manual shall recommend specific privacy mitigation measures to be considered in a NPZ Design Review in accordance with Section 5.10.3.A.2. Examples of privacy mitigation include vegetative or other screening or siting elements, walls, siting of buildings or windows, and eliminating balconies or similar features to reduce views towards the existing dwellings.

         e.   Other Standards

         Dimensional, spatial, and access standards, if adopted by Mayor and Council as mandatory in accordance with Section 5.10.2.C.2, shall be included in the Design Manual.

      2.   Dimensional, Spatial, and Access Standards

      The Design Manual may contain dimensional, spatial, or access standards, subject to the following:

         a.   The dimensional, spatial, and access standards may differ from the standards in Article 6 and Article 7 of the UDC . Such standards may be more or less restrictive than those of the underlying zone provided they comply with the following:

            (1)   Do not create a nuisance or intrude on the privacy of adjoining or surrounding properties;

            (2)   Create a more historically compatible setting, accommodate energy efficiency or, ensure enhanced resource conservation greater than current standards; and,

            (3)   In the case of alley access standards, specify mitigation measures to ensure safe access.

         b.   The Mayor and Council may adopt dimensional, spatial, and access standards as mandatory requirements upon a finding by the Director of PDSD that the proposed standard complies with this section.

         c.   Dimensional, spatial, and access standards not adopted as mandatory requirements shall be advisory for purposes of a compatibility review.

   D.   Districts Established

      1.   NPZ districts are established upon adoption of a rezoning ordinance for a neighborhood. The Design Manual created in accordance with Section 5.10.2.C is a condition of the NPZ district.

      2.   Adopted NPZ districts shall use the following format: “NPZ-1" - NAME OF DISTRICT - Adopted on XXX, by Ordinance No. XXX.

   E.   Zoning Maps

   To identify each of the NPZ districts on the City of Tucson Zoning Maps , the preface “N” is added to the assigned residential zoning designation, i.e., R-1 becomes NR-1.

##### 5.10.3.   NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION ZONE (NPZ) DESIGN REVIEW PROCEDURE

   The purpose of the NPZ Design Review Procedure is to ensure compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and the applicable NPZ.

   A.   Applicability

      1.   An NPZ Design Review is required of all development that:

         a.   Is zoned NRX-1, NRX-2, NR-1, NR-2, NR-3, NRH, NSR, and NSH;

         b.   Requires a building permit; and,

         c.   Is visible from a street that is not classified as an alley , unless the PDSD Director makes a finding that a proposed development ’s visibility from the street is so minimal as to be immaterial for purposes of the application of this section.

      2.   Compliance with the privacy mitigation standards of the applicable design manual is required when the following types of development are proposed adjacent to existing single story residences:

         a.   Construction of a multistory residence;

         b.   Addition of a story to an existing residence; or,

         c.   Additions to existing second or higher stories.

      3.   An NPZ Design Review is not required of the following:

         a.   Interior renovations or construction within the interior of a building ;

         b.   Building maintenance, repairs, or painting or minor building  alterations , such as window or door alterations or replacements, or minor additions to an existing residence that do not affect the external appearance of the structure as seen from the street ; or,

         c.   Exterior development that is not visible from the street , except the Privacy Mitigation Measures, Section 5.10.3.A.2, apply to any proposed development that exceeds the height of residential structures on adjacent properties.

      4.   Where there is a conflict between the standards of the applicable Historic Preservation Zone (HPZ) and the standards of the NPZ, the standards of the HPZ prevail.

   B.   Pre-Application Conference

   A pre-application conference between the applicant, the PDSD, and the Design Professional is required when projects are required to be reviewed in accordance with the NPZ Design Review Procedure. The purpose of the pre-application conference is to review the project and identify all applicable requirements, including the Compatibility Review Standards, and whether privacy mitigation is required.

   C.   Application

   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. Applications are reviewed for completeness. If an application is rejected, the applicant may resubmit the application.

   D.   Review

   Accepted applications are forwarded to PDSD staff and the Design Professional . The PDSD staff reviews the application for compliance with applicable UDC requirements. The Design Professional reviews the application to determine compliance with the neighborhood specific design manual.

      1.   Contributing Properties within a project ’s development zone as determined by Section 11.4.5 (Definitions - D) shall be used when identifying the Compatibility Review Standards.

      2.   If the development zone for the proposed development does not contain Contributing Properties , the development zone shall be expanded in every direction until the development zone includes at least one Contributing Property .

      3.   The Design Professional shall consider the relative impact and intensity of the proposed development when reviewing the application and in rendering his or her findings and recommendations.

      4.   Approval of proposed development may be subject to special conditions to provide for compliance with the Compatibility Review Standards.

   E.   Findings and Recommendation

   The Design Professional shall submit a written report that includes the Compatibility Review with findings and a recommendation to the PDSD Director .

   F.   PDSD Director Decision

   The PDSD Director shall review the application and render a decision finding compliance or noncompliance with the NPZ and the neighborhood specific design manual within five days of receiving the Design Professional ’s report.

   G.   Notice of Decision

   Notice of the decision shall be mailed to the applicant, property owners within 100 feet of the subject site , and to the neighborhood association that includes the subject site within three days of the date of the decision.

   H.   Appeal to the Design Review Board (DRB)

   A party of record may appeal the PDSD Director ’s decision on NPZ Design Review applications. Appeals are considered by the Design Review Board in accordance with Section 3.9.1, Design Review Board (DRB) Appeal Procedure. A notice of intent to appeal must be received y the PDSD within 14 days of the effective date of the Director ’s decision. The complete appeals material must be filed within 30 days of the effective date of the decision. An appeal under this section shall be based upon an error in the Director ’s decision finding compliance or noncompliance with the neighborhood specific design manual and compatibility review standards.

   I.   Appeal to the Board of Adjustment (B/A)

   A party of record may submit an appeal of the DRB’s decision to the B/A in accordance with Sections 3.10.1 and 3.10.2, Board of Adjustment Appeals Procedure. A notice of intent to appeal must be received by PDSD within 14 days of the effective date of the DRB’s decision. The complete appeals material must be filed within 30 days of the effective date of the decision.

(Am. Ord. 11732, 2/19/2020)

