#### 7.10.   ALLEYS

   Alleys are public ways used primarily for the placement of utilities and refuse collection. Alleys are not required for new development not located in a subdivision . Alleys are required in new subdivisions only for the purposes of completing existing alley systems or providing turning radii for vehicles within existing alley systems that abut the proposed subdivision .

7.10.1.   When alleys are required or are provided by the developer, they may be not less than 16 feet wide where there is residential development or residential zoning on both sides of the alley and not less than 20 feet wide where there is nonresidential development or nonresidential zoning on at least one side.

7.10.2.   Alley intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be avoided, but if necessary, corners will be designed with a radius spandrel in accordance with City Engineering standards as provided in Section 10-01.0.0, Street Technical Standards, of the Technical Standards Manual to permit safe vehicular movement. Spandrels of lesser dimensions may be approved by the City Engineer or designee where determined that safe circulation and public services will not be impeded.

7.10.3.   Alleys must be designed in accordance with the standard street design requirements as they pertain to pavement and base materials and thicknesses. Additionally, the design must meet minimum and maximum cross slopes requirements in accordance with Section 10-01.0.0, Street Technical Standards, of the Technical Standards Manual.

7.10.4.   Alleys must be designed to operate as water conveyance systems. The design must improve drainage conditions, or at least not worsen them.

7.10.5.   The use of alleys for vehicular maneuvering or loading is prohibited, unless specifically permitted by Section 7.4.6.K, Use of Street or Alley for Maneuvering Area, or another section of this article.

