#### 7.5.   OFF-STREET LOADING

##### 7.5.1.   PURPOSE

   This section establishes requirements for the safe receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by vehicle to provide for:

   A.   An off-street space or berth for temporary parking of a vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise, cargo, or materials;

   B.   Expediting moving traffic and lessening street congestion by minimizing traffic conflicts between streets and the loading areas for various land use activities;

   C.   Adequate loading areas for new land uses and for expansion of existing land uses ;

   D.   A safer pedestrian environment by providing separate and distinct spaces from the pedestrian areas for loading areas ;

   E.   Safe, convenient, and efficient ingress-egress for loading areas ; and,

   F.   Safe and efficient on-site vehicular circulation systems by providing separate loading areas from the vehicular traffic lanes.

##### 7.5.2.   APPLICABILITY

   The provisions of this section apply to:

   A.   New development ;

   B.   Changes of use locating in existing development , as required in Section 7.5.3.D, Changes of Use.

   C.   Any expansion of an existing land use or any addition of a new use to an existing development , as required in Section 7.5.3.E, Expansions.

##### 7.5.3.   GENERAL PROVISIONS

   A.   Land Use Groups and Land Use Classes

   The specific Land Use Groups and Land Use Classes listed in Sec 7.5.5, Required Loading Areas, are defined in Article 11, Definitions and Rules of Construction.

   B.   Calculations for Loading Areas

   The calculation for the required number of loading areas is based on the proposed land use and the size of the project as provided in Section 7.5.5, Required Loading Areas. The size of the project is the gross floor area of the use, including any outdoor area dedicated to the use, but excluding vehicular use areas

   C.   Change of Approved Vehicular Use Area

   Whenever zoning approval has been granted for a vehicular use area which includes loading areas , the approval is conditioned upon the continued compliance with the provisions contained in the approved plan. Any change to the vehicular use area as shown on the approved plan must comply with the requirements of this section and be reapproved.

   D.   Changes of Use

   Whenever the use of an existing development is changed to a different use which requires a loading area or loading areas of greater size under this section than were required for the prior use, additional loading areas or a loading area of greater size, whichever is applicable, must be provided.

   E.   Expansions

   Any expansion of an existing use or any addition of a new use to an existing development which results in an expansion in gross floor area is subject to the following requirements:

      1.   If an expansion or a series of expansions cumulatively results in less than a 25% expansion in gross floor area , the requirements of this section apply only to the expanded use.

      2.   If an expansion or a series of expansions cumulatively results in a 25% or greater expansion in gross floor area , the requirements of this section apply to the entire site .

      3.   Expansions are cumulated over time from April 1, 1969. Once a development is brought into conformance with the requirements of this section, subsequent expansions will begin accumulating as of the date the development was brought into conformance .

##### 7.5.4.   DESIGN CRITERIA

   All loading areas , including any non-required loading areas , must comply with the following requirements.

   A.   Location and Use Requirements

   The location and use of a loading area are as follows.

      1.   A loading area must be located on the same site or lot as the use they serve.

      2.   A loading area required for a billboard must be located immediately adjacent to the billboard and outside the area defined by a vertical line intersecting the ground and any structural element extending from the billboard, including, but not limited to, overhangs, cantilevered beams, and elevated walkways.

      3.   A loading area may be co-located within the approach area for dumpster containers and the stacking spaces of drive-through aisles when safety and access issues are appropriately addressed and delivery and solid waste collection schedules are coordinated so as not to conflict with one another.

   B.   Access Requirements

   The access requirements to a loading space are as follows.

      1.   A street may be used for access and maneuvering into and out of a loading area provided:

         a.   The street is used for access to only one loading area on that site .

         b.   The street is not shown on the Major Streets and Routes (MS&R) Plan .

         c.   The street is not a local residential street .

         d.   The street does not abut a residential zone within the same block .

      2.   An alley may be used for access and maneuvering into and out of a loading area provided:

         a.   The alley is used for access to only one loading area on that site .

         b.   The alley is a minimum 20 feet wide.

         c.   The alley is surfaced in a manner acceptable to the City Engineer.

         d.   The alley does not abut a residential zone within the same block .

      3.   The maneuvering area must be designed so that there is safe access into and out of a loading area . The size and configuration of the maneuvering area must be based on AASHTO (American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials) standards for turning radii and distances required of the vehicles for which the loading area is designed.

      4.   The access route to a loading area must have an overhead clearance of 15 feet.

   C.   Screening and Landscaping Requirements

   The screening and landscaping of a loading area must be in accordance with Section 7.6, Landscaping and Screening Regulations.

   D.   Lighting Requirements

   The lighting of a loading area , if present, must be in conformance with adopted City of Tucson Outdoor Lighting regulations.

   E.   Surfacing Requirements

   The surfacing of a loading area must be in accordance with Section 7.4.6.I, Surfacing Requirements.

   F.   Striping Requirements

   A loading area must be striped in accordance with Section 7.4.6.G, Striping, Surfacing Requirements, to distinguish it from motor vehicle parking spaces and other uses on the site .

   G.   Dimensional Requirements

   The minimum size of a loading area , exclusive of access and maneuvering area, must be:

      1.   Type A: 12 feet by 35 feet;

      2.   Type B: 12 feet by 55 feet; and,

      3.   Overhead Clearance is 15 feet.

##### 7.5.5.   REQUIRED LOADING AREAS

   The number of loading areas listed for each Land Use Group is applicable for all Land Use Classes within that Land Use Group, unless a Land Use Class is listed specifically stating otherwise.

TABLE 7.5.5-A: REQUIRED LOADING AREAS

Land Use Group/Class

Loading Areas Required

TABLE 7.5.5-A: REQUIRED LOADING AREAS

Land Use Group/Class

Loading Areas Required

Agricultural Use Group (Section 11.3.2)

Not required

Civic Use Group (Section 11.3.3)

Not required except for:

Civic Assembly

Less Than 25,000 sq. ft. GFA

0

   Over 25,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type A

Commercial Services Use Group (Section 11.3.4)

Not required except for:

   Offices: Less Than 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

0

   50,001 to 100,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type A

   Over 100,000 sq. ft. GFA

2 Type A

Billboard

1 Type A

Restaurants/Bars

   Less Than 5,000 sq. ft. GFA

0

   Over 5,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type A

Industrial Use Group (Section 11.3.5)

Not required except for:

   ALL USES: Less than 25,000 sq. ft. GFA

0

   25,001 to 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type B

   Over 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

2 Type B

Recreation Use Group (Section 11.3.6)

Not required

Restricted Adult Activities Use Group (Section 11.3.8)

Not required except for:

Same as required for similar land use class in Commercial Services Use Group, Retail Trade Use Group or Industrial Use Group

Retail Trade Use Group (Section 11.3.9)

Not required except for:

Merchandise Sales

   Less Than 25,000 sq. ft. GFA

0

   25,001 to 100,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type A

   Over 100,000 sq. ft. GFA

2 Type A

Storage Use Group (Section 11.3.10)

Not required except for:

Commercial Storage and Personal Storage w/o Direct Vehicular Access:

   Less Than 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type A

   Over 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

2 Type A

Utilities Use Group (Section 11.3.11)

Not required

Wholesaling Use Group (Section 11.3.12)

Not required except for:

   ALL USES: Less than 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

1 Type B

   Over 50,000 sq. ft. GFA

2 Type B

