#### 7A.4.   PERMITS, INSPECTIONS, AND FEES

##### 7A.4.1.   PERMITS

   A.   All signs shall be erected, reinstalled, altered, repaired, relocated, permitted and inspected in compliance with Section 3.3 Zoning Compliance Review, Section 4 Development Review Fee Schedule of the Administrative Manual, and the most recently adopted Unified Building Codes, as well as other applicable City codes.

      1.   It shall be a civil infraction for any person to erect, reinstall, alter , change the copy of, repair or relocate a sign , or cause the same to be done, without first obtaining a permit or permits from the Planning and Development Services Department, as required by the sign  standards.

      2.   It shall be a civil infraction for any person to use, maintain, or otherwise allow the continued existence of any sign for which the required permit was not obtained, and each day such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.

      3.   A permit shall be issued to the owner of the property or the agent for the owner. When a contractor is required to be licensed by the State of Arizona, the permit shall only be issued to a licensed contractor.

      4.   Compliance with technical codes. In addition to compliance with the sign  standards, all signs shall comply with the appropriate detailed provisions of the adopted Building Code for the City of Tucson and all adopted technical codes relating to design, structural members, and connections, the applicable provisions of the Electrical and Fire Codes of the City of Tucson and the additional construction standards set forth in this jurisdiction.

   B.   Permission of Property Owner

      1.   No person shall erect, construct, or maintain any sign upon any property or building without the consent of the owner, person entitled to possession of the property or building , if any, or their authorized representative.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.4.2.   ISSUANCE

   A.   Review and Approval

      The application, plans, specifications, computations and other data filed by an applicant for permit shall be reviewed by the Planning and Development Services Department. Such plans may be reviewed by other departments of the City to verify compliance with any applicable laws under their jurisdiction. If the Planning and Development Services Department finds that the work described in an application for a permit and the plans, specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the requirements of the sign  standards and other pertinent laws and ordinances, and that the fees specified in the Administrative Manual have been paid, a permit shall be issued to the applicant. When the Planning and Development Services Department issues the permit where plans are required, the plans and specifications shall be endorsed in writing or stamped "APPROVED." Such approved plans and specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered without authorization from the Planning and Development Services Department, and all work shall be done in accordance with the approved plans.

   B.    Retention of Plans

      One set of approved plans and specifications shall be returned to the applicant and shall be kept on the job site at all times during which the work authorized thereby is in progress. One set of approved plans, specifications and computations shall be retained by the Planning and Development Services Department.

   C.   Validity of Permit

      The issuance of a permit or approval of plans, specifications and computations shall not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any violation of any of the provisions of the sign  standards or of any other ordinance of this jurisdiction. No permit presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provisions of these Codes shall be valid.

   D.   Expiration

      1.   Every permit issued by the Planning and Development Services Department under the provisions of the sign  standards shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of such permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days from the date of such permit, or if the work authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned for a period of 180 days or more at any time after the work is commenced as evidenced by successive approved inspections. Before such work may be resumed, a new permit shall first be obtained, and the fee shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans and specifications of such work, and that suspension or abandonment has not exceeded one year. Where a permit has expired for more than one year, a new permit must be obtained at full fee.

      2.   Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an extension of time within which to commence work under that permit when the permittee is unable to commence work within the time required by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The zoning administrator may extend the time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding180 days upon written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. No permit shall be extended more than once. Prior to extending the permit, the zoning administrator may require the plans to be re-examined and/or on-site inspections to be made, the cost of which will be paid by the applicant requesting the extension of the permit. The Planning and Development Services Department director may condition an extension of a permit on compliance with any amendments to the sign  standards adopted after issuance of the initial permit.

   E.   Suspension or Revocation

      The Planning and Development Services Department may, in writing, suspend or revoke a permit under the provisions of the Tucson Code whenever the permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any of the provisions of the Tucson Code.

##### 7A.4.3.   EFFECT OF ISSUANCE

   A.   No permit issued for a sign shall be deemed to constitute permission or authorization to maintain a public or private nuisance , nor shall any permit issued constitute a defense in an action to abate a nuisance .

   B.   A fabricator may submit plans for a sign to the zoning administrator for approval and file as a standard. Thereafter, permits may be obtained for such signs without filing detailed structural plans. Such signs shall be given a standard number by the fabricator, and the standard number shall be shown on each permit application. Standard engineering (such as that currently used by members of the Arizona Sign Association) may be submitted to the zoning administrator for approval and filed as a standard. If such standards are submitted and approved for use by more than one contractor, a list of all contractors authorized to use that standard must be submitted to the zoning administrator by the originator(s) of that standard.

##### 7A.4.4.   INSPECTIONS

   A.   General

      1.   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection, and certain types of construction shall have continuous inspection by special inspectors.

      2.   A survey of the lot may be required by the zoning administrator to verify that the structure is located in accordance with approved plans. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the work to be accessible and exposed for inspection purposes. The City shall not be liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of any material required to allow inspection.

   B.   Inspection Requests

      It shall be the duty of the person doing the work authorized by a permit to notify the Planning and Development Services Department that such work is ready for inspection. The zoning administrator or chief building official may require that every request for inspection be filed at least one working day before such inspection is desired.

   C.   Approval Required

      No work shall be done on any part of the structure beyond the point indicated in each successive inspection without first obtaining the approval of the zoning administrator. Such approval shall be given only after an inspection shall have been made of each successive step in the construction as indicated by each of the inspections required.

   D.   Required Inspections

      1.   A site review inspection is required on all permit applications, except for portable signs and for temporary signs for which a sign permit is required.

      2.   At the time of the required site inspection, the inspector will verify that the site complies with the information contained in the sign permit application. The inspector will inform the applicant of any discrepancy or violations found on the site . The requested permit shall not be issued until the site is brought into compliance with the sign  standards or plans are modified to conform to the site . At the time of the required site review, billboard sites must be staked indicating property lines , required zoning setback , type and size of billboard , and where the leading edge of the billboard will be. Site address must be on billboard .

      3.   Footing inspections are required on all detached signs that require an engineering plan.

      4.   The Planning and Development Services Department, upon notification from the permit holder or his agent, shall make the required inspections and shall either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify the permit holder or his agent wherein the same fails to comply with the sign  standards.

   E.   Re-inspection

      1.   A re-inspection fee may be assessed for each inspection or re-inspection when such portion of work for which inspection is called is not complete or when corrections called for are not made. A re-inspection fee may be assessed when the permit card is not properly posted on the work site , when the approved plans are not readily available to the inspector, for failure to provide access on the date for which inspection is requested, or for deviating from plans requiring the approval of the zoning administrator. This fee must be paid prior to the acceptance of any further re-inspection requests by the Planning and Development Services Department and is in addition to any fee due for a subsequent re-inspection.

      2.   The re-inspection fee shall be charged for the third and subsequent inspections.

      3.   To obtain a re-inspection, the applicant must pay the re-inspection fee in accordance with Section 4-01 Development Review Fee Schedule of the Administrative Manual.

      4.   In instances where re-inspection fees have been assessed, no additional inspection of the work will be performed until the required fees have been paid.

   F.   Final Inspection

   The person erecting, altering or relocating a sign shall request a final inspection upon completion of the work for which permits have been issued.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.4.5.   SPECIAL INSPECTOR REQUIRED

   A.   The following sign types shall be subject to continuous inspection by special inspectors as provided in Chapter 1 of the International Building Code.

   B.   All detached sign  structures exceeding 100 square feet in area or 25 feet in overall height.

   C.   All signs attached to a building in excess of 30 feet from the bottom of the sign to grade, if, in the opinion of the plans examiner , the subject sign and/or the particular building  structure and/or the method of attachment constitutes an unusual and/or dangerous structure and/or attachment.

   D.   A record of the special inspections shall be submitted to the Planning and Development Services Department by the applicant at or prior to final inspection and retained by the Planning and Development Services Department with the sign permit application.

##### 7A.4.6.   FEES

   A.   All sign permit fees are set forth in Section 4-01 Development Review Fee Schedule of the Administrative Manual.

##### 7A.4.7.   MAINTENANCE

   A.   Each sign shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good condition, including the replacement of defective parts, painting, repainting, cleaning, and other acts required for the maintenance of said sign , without altering the basic copy, design or structure of the sign . Any painted sign that is painted out and repainted exactly as it previously existed is considered maintenance of a sign . The zoning administrator shall require compliance or removal of any sign determined by said official to be in violation of this section.

   B.   In addition to satisfying the requirements of subsection A, any sign that is constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard, plastic or other light material, and that is not rigidly and permanently installed in the ground or permanently attached to a building , must be removed or replaced within 100 days after it is installed or erected.

   C.   Dangerous or Defective Signs

      No person shall maintain or permit to be maintained on any premise owned or controlled by him or her any sign that is in a dangerous or defective condition. Any such sign shall be promptly removed or repaired by the owner of the sign or the owner of the premises .

   D.   Removal of Dangerous or Defective Signs

      The zoning administrator shall remove or cause to be removed any dangerous or defective sign pursuant to the provisions for the unsafe structures and equipment in the International Building Code.

(Ord. 11508, 12/5/2017)

