#### 7A.7.   SIGN DESIGN OPTIONS

##### 7A.7.1.   MASTER SIGN PROGRAM - PERMANENT SIGNS

   A.   Purpose

      The purpose of this section is to respond to special permanent sign needs of a premise as well as provide flexibility, encourage development in accordance with adopted plans and policies, and promote superior sign design to implement the purpose of this article.

   B.   Applicability

      The master sign program includes all exterior permanent signs at a premise and provides a process where the provisions of Article 7A may be varied subject to the standards and findings listed below. Billboard  signs may not be proposed as part of the Master Sign Program.

   C.   A master sign program may be submitted before, after, or concurrently with a rezoning, special exception, planned area development , development package or site plan . Signs regulated by the program require individual permits prior to construction. A sign may be ground or wall mounted or designed into and constructed as part of an integrated architectural feature of a building . In a case where the sign has mixed elements of ground or wall mounted or architectural integration into the building , the zoning administrator will determine what are the most applicable standards.

   D.   Decision

      The Sign Design Review Committee shall review design options and make a recommendation to the planning and development services director for a final decision. The director's decision may be to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application. The director shall base the decision on compliance with the purpose statement, findings, and applicable design standards.

      1.   An applicant may appeal the director's decision first to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section 3.10.2 and may then appeal to the Mayor and Council in accordance with Section 3.9.2 (Mayor and Council Appeal Procedure).

      2.   An applicant may apply for an amendment to an approved Master Sign Program in accordance with the standards set forth in this Article 7A.7.

   E.   Design Standards

      1.   All Signs

         a.   Illumination shall reduce light trespass and offer protection to dark skies in compliance with the City's outdoor lighting standards.

         b.   A sign with lists of categories, tenants or organizations, or similar listed items within panels or separately mounted sign copy , shall have a unifying and proportional outlining background color behind the copy, i.e. words, names, numbers or symbols using a specific logo or federally registered trademark colors.

         c.   For a sign with lists, the sign panels and/or the separately mounted sign copy , i.e., sign copy mounted without panels on a structure or wall , shall be mounted or placed so as to be reasonably proportional in size.

      2.   Ground-Mounted Signs

         a.   Sign Copy

            (1)   Signs shall contain legible sign copy . A sign intended to be seen from a right of way shall contain no more than sixteen items of information. An equivalent alternative is an eight panel sign .

            (2)   Sign copy shall be applied to the sign  structure in the following manner: Panels of the same size with a unifying background color as noted in Section 7A.7.1.E.1.b. Proportional letters, numbers or logos as noted in Section 7A.7.1.E.1.c. Up to fifty (50) percent of the panels may be larger than other panels or names.

         b.   Sign Height

            (1)   The sign height and sign  structure  setback for a freestanding sign should be at a height and distance from the right-of-way to be easily detectable and give a vehicle a reasonable time to adjust to traffic conditions.

            (2)   The sign height shall be compatible with the surrounding height profile of the buildings , freestanding signs , and structures on the property and in the surrounding area. The sign  structure shall not obstruct significant scenic views from the right of way .

            (3)   The height of the sign copy shall be set so as not to be obstructed by landscaping or a parked vehicle.

         c.   Sign Design Elements

            (1)   Structural Components

               (i)   A freestanding sign should be comprised of a design such as two or more components unified by similar materials. A sign blending wall and ground mounted components may use Section 7A.7.1.F Best Practice Option.

               (ii)   The design of the components shall use the architectural style of the development being identified. Features to be used in designing the components include colors, materials, textures and shapes of the development's architecture. The bottom component shall be designed with a monument-style base or similar wide-base design.

            (2)   Wayfinding and Identification

               (i)   Freestanding signs shall provide high quality wayfinding and identification with a common and unifying design theme.

               (ii)   Ground-mounted wayfinding signs that are 20 square feet or less in sign area are not required to have three components but are required to be coordinated in architectural style, colors, materials, and textures with the other larger signs .

            (3)   Visual Environment

               In all cases, to protect the unique visual environment of Tucson, all flexible standards or use of design guidelines in Section 7A.7.1.F Best Practice Option, must address a consistent and compatible treatment of the height profile of the buildings and signs in the surrounding area, preserving scenic vistas and vegetation, and dark skies compatible sign illumination.

            (4)   Landscaping

               Ground-mounted signs shall be incorporated into existing or proposed landscaping at the site. The materials shall consist of non-obstructing live and/or inert landscaping materials .

         d.   Freeway Signs

            A freeway sign that is part of the master sign program shall, in addition to the standards of the master sign program, be constructed in accordance with the Article 7A freeway sign  standards and adhere to the items of information legibility standard noted in this section.

      3.   Wall -Mounted Signs

         a.   Wall -mounted signs intended to be viewed from the right of way or that exceed twelve square feet in sign area shall be designed to be proportional to the building  frontage of the tenant space.

         b.   If the sign is intended to provide wayfinding it shall be located at key identification points.

         c.   Sign copy may include the font, logo, symbol and color of the business but shall be constructed or mounted to be consistent with the master sign program.

         d.   For all wall -mounted signs , an organized, proportional appearance is required among the signs of a building or tenant space. Disorganized sizes and color arrangements in the signs ' appearance on a specific building or tenant space are to be avoided.

      4.   Integrated Architecture Sign

         a.   Signs that are not classified as either wall or ground mounted shall be constructed in a manner to abide by the overall design context of the architecture of the building and be consistent with the design standards used to develop the master sign program.

   F.   Best Practice Option

      A variation from the design standards must show a best practice is being used as an alternative. A best practice may be based on one of the following sources:

      1.   An already approved permanent sign , master sign program within the City;

      2.   An award-winning sign design from a national or state sign organization;

      3.   A document, book, or example endorsed by the American Planning Association, American Sign Association or American Institute of Architects or similar organizations, and approved by the PDSD Director ;

      4.   A design guideline based in technical standards including, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials' Guide for the Development of Bicycle Facilities (AASHTO), the National Association of City Transportation Officials' Urban Bikeway Design Guide (NACTO), United States Sign Council Model On-Premise Sign Code, Street Graphics and the Law, the Scenic America recommended handbook for on-premise  signs or a similar document recommended by the Design Professional and approved by the PDSD Director ; and,

      5.   A master sign program, sign design, or document recommended by the Design Professional as being appropriate for the surrounding context of the affected City streetscape.

   G.   Findings

      1.   The decision shall show the sign program's compliance with the following findings applicable to the site :

         a.   Meets the purpose of Article 7A, Section 7A.7.A, the master sign program's purpose, and Section 7A.7.1.E, the master sign program's design standards;

         b.   Creates a clear connection with the shapes, textures, colors and materials used in the appearance of the buildings of the premise ;

         c.   Creates proportional sizes of signs placed on or integrated into a building's architecture;

         d.   Improves the legibility of signs ;

         e.   Enhances driver reaction time to the signs ;

         f.   Creates an organized wayfinding and identification, or messaging program;

         g.   Protects significant scenic views;

         h.   Promotes a well-organized visual environment through appropriate sizes, number, setbacks , and spacing; and,

         i.   Represents a best practice of the design of dark sky sign illumination.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.7.2.   MASTER SIGN PROGRAM - PORTABLE SIGNS

   A.   Purpose

      1.   The purpose is to respond to special portable sign needs of a business, organization or user that has either a special need or has historically required a larger amount of portable signage than permitted by Article 7A, Sign  Standards.

      2.   In exchange for greater flexibility with dimensions and the amount of signs , the master sign program for portable signs must show that clutter management is achieved by ensuring a coordinated design appearance and using the least amount of signage needed to achieve message display, identification, and wayfinding objectives.

   B.   Applicability

      1.   The master sign program for portable signs allows a design option for all portable signs and applies to all portable signs intended to be viewed from the right of way . The program provides a process where the provisions of Article 7A may be varied subject to the standards and findings listed below. It applies to on-site signs that are intended to be viewed from the right-of-way . If off-site signs are used they must be approved and coordinated with the Department of Transportation.

   C.   Design Standards

      1.   The number of signs shall be located and spaced or grouped together to reduce a disorganized appearance at the front of a development .

      2.   Spacing, sign area, height and setback shall be adjusted to ensure a legible and well-organized appearance along the right of way . Grouping of signs of different sizes may be used if the visual impact is to improve the overall appearance of an affected street  frontage .

      3.   Materials should be similar for all or most signs to reduce the likelihood of a disorganized appearance along the street  frontage .

      4.   In no case may a sign exceed in sign area or sign height a sign that has been used in previous standards within the City.

      5.   The program may include signs with sign areas exceeding 32 square feet with multiple messages to reduce the overall number of portable signs along the public right of way .

      6.   Items of information per sign shall not exceed sixteen items of information or six equal size panels or similar arrangement.

   D.   The Decision, Findings, and Best Practices of the Master Sign Program for Permanent Signs applies to the Master Sign Program for Portable Signs .

   E.   Additional Findings Master Sign Program - Portable Signs

      1.   Promotes a well-organized visual environment through appropriate sizes, number, setbacks , and spacing;

      2.   Legibility is required of all signs ; and,

      3.   Signs are coordinated in materials, color, and design.

##### 7A.7.3.   SINGULAR SIGN DESIGN OPTION

   A.   The purpose of this section is to implement Section 7A.7.1.A Purpose, by promoting a harmonious relationship between buildings , signs , and streetscapes through improved legibility and sight lines for moving vehicles and encouraging best design practices by reducing a disorganized and confusing visual environment along the City's streetscapes. Billboard  signs may not be proposed as part of the Singular Sign Design Option.

   B.   The section applies to a new sign or modification or replacement of an existing sign .

   C.   The proposed design option for an individual ground-mounted or wall -mounted signs and signs integrated into the architecture of the building shall follow the decision making, review process, design standards, findings for permanent signs in Section 7A.7.1 Master Sign Program - Permanent Signs.

   D.   A sign with lists of categories, tenants or organizations or similar listed items within panels or separately mounted sign copy , shall have a unifying and proportional outlining background color behind the copy, i.e. words, names, numbers or symbols using a specific logo or federally registered trademark colors.

   E.   For a sign with lists, the sign panels and/or the separately mounted sign copy , i.e., sign copy mounted without panels on a structure or wall , shall be mounted or placed so as to be reasonably proportional in size.

##### 7A.7.4.   NOTIFICATION

   A.   Notification for Sign Design Option shall be in accordance with PDSD departmental policy.

(Ord. 11508, 12/5/2017)

