#### 7A.8.   EXEMPT AND PROHIBITED SIGNS

##### 7A.8.1.   EXEMPT SIGNS

   A.   The provisions of the sign  standards, including the requirements for permits, shall not apply to the following specified signs , nor shall the area of such signs be included in the area of signs permitted for any parcel or use. The following signs are permitted in all zones and special districts.

      1.   Non-commercial flags, emblems or insignias;

      2.   Permanent sign  cut into the surface of a façade or building ;

      3.   Non-commercial murals ;

      4.   Commercial murals that are in pedestrian districts; and,

      5.   Manned hot air balloons.

   B.   In the event that an exempt sign listed above is located in a "H" Historic Preservation Zone, the sign will be subject to review under 5.8.8, Design Review Required.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.8.2.   PROHIBITED SIGNS

   A.   No person shall erect, alter , or relocate any sign of the type specified in this section, unless it is regulated elsewhere such as, signs in the right-of-way or heritage landmark signs .

   B.   Animated and intensely lighted signs : No sign shall be permitted that is animated by any means, including flashing, scintillating, blinking, or traveling lights, or any other means not providing constant illumination, except as allowed as a heritage landmark sign (HLS).

   C.   No sign shall be permitted that because of its intensity of light constitutes a nuisance or hazard to vehicular traffic, pedestrians or adjacent properties.

   D.   Miscellaneous - Commercial

      Miscellaneous signs , posters and satellite disks: The tacking, painting, pasting or otherwise affixing of signs or posters of a miscellaneous character, visible from a public way, on the walls of a building , barns or sheds, or on trees, poles, posts, fences or other structures , is prohibited. No signage of any type is permitted on satellite dishes or disks.

   E.   Moving Signs

      No sign or any portion thereof shall be permitted that moves or assumes any other motion constituting a non-stationary or non-fixed condition, except as allowed as a heritage landmark sign (HLS).

   F.   Roof Signs

      1.   A Roof Sign is a sign that is erected upon, against, or directly above a roof, or on top of or directly above the parapet of a building .

      2.   Roof Sign Exceptions

         a.   Canopy sign is not considered a roof sign .

         b.   Signs placed upon the face of a parapet or architectural feature are considered a wall sign .

         c.   Heritage landmark sign (HLS) in accordance with Section 7A.10.4.

         d.   On a National Register of Historic Places (NRHP) listed or eligible to be listed building where the applicant can demonstrate both:

            (1)   That the only wall or building -mounted options available would damage the building's historic fabric or would have an adverse effect on qualities that make building eligible for listing in the NRHP, and

            (2)   That use of a roof sign would result in minimal damage to historic fabric and avoid adverse effects on qualities that make building eligible for listing in the NRHP.

         d.   Review of roof signs on a NRHP listed or eligible to be listed building and recommendation to the PDSD Director shall be provided by the Tucson-Pima County Historic Commission Plans Review Subcommittee (T-PCHC-PRS).

   G.   Sound, Odor or Visible Matter

      Any sign or device that emits audible sound, odor or visible matter.

(Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

##### 7A.8.3.   SIGNS CREATING TRAFFIC HAZARDS

   No sign shall be permitted at the intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear vision of motor vehicle operators. No sign shall be located at any location where by reason of its position, shape, or color it may interfere with or be confused with any authorized traffic sign , signal or device. No sign may make use of a word, symbol, phrase, shape or color in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.

##### 7A.8.4.   SIGNS IN PUBLIC AREAS

   No sign shall be permitted on any curb, sidewalk , post, pole, hydrant, bridge, tree or other surface located on public property or over or across any street or public thoroughfare, except as expressly authorized by the sign  standards. Otherwise conforming on-site signs, such as projecting signs, may be allowed to extend into the public right-of-way, subject to additional approval by the Tucson Department of Transportation (TDOT) through the Temporary Revocable Easement process.

(Ord. 11508, 12/5/2017; Am. Ord. 11803, 12/8/2020)

