#### 8.3.   LAND DIVISION

##### 8.3.1.   LAND SPLIT

   A.   Purpose

   According to A.R.S. §9-463.01(T), the City may regulate a land split as defined in Section 11.4.13 within its jurisdictional limits. The state law gives the City authority to determine the division lines, area, and shapes of the parcels . Neither a tentative plat nor a final plat is required but the resulting tracts or parcels shall conform to applicable zoning requirements and other government codes and ordinances. The purpose of this section is to establish a review process for land splits . This review:

      1.   Assures that newly created tracts or parcels are of sufficient size to be developed and meet the requirements of applicable zoning classification;

      2.   Assures that the newly created tracts or parcels have locations for building pads that are protected from flood and erosion hazards as defined in the Floodplain Ordinance (Tucson Code Chapter 26) and Standards Manual for Drainage Design and Floodplain Management in Tucson, Arizona; and,

      3.   Assures that all tracts or parcels resulting from a land split shall have adequate access as specified by Section 7.8, Access, of the UDC , Sections 7-01.0.0, Pedestrian Access, and 10-01.0.0, Street Technical Standard, of the Technical Standards Manual and City of Tucson Drainage Manuals.

   B.   Applicability

   A proposed land split shall be submitted to PDSD for review and approval as provided in this section.

   C.   Pre-application Conference Recommended

   A pre-application conference is encouraged, but not required.

   D.   Application Required

   Submittal of an application to the PDSD is required in order to process the request. The application must be in accordance with Section 2-08.0.0, Land Split Applications, of the Administrative Manual. Applications are reviewed for completeness in accordance with Section 3.2.3, Application Requirements.

   E.   Review

   Land splits are reviewed by the PDSD for compliance with the following requirements:

      1.   Does not constitute a subdivision as defined in Section 11.4.20 which would require compliance with platting requirements of Section 8.4;

      2.   Results in tracts or parcels which conform to the minimum lot size requirements of the property’s zone ;

      3.   Provides access to the proposed tracts or parcels in accordance with Section 7.8, Access, of the UDC , Sections 7-01.0.0, Pedestrian Access, and 10-01.0.0, Street Technical Standard, of the Technical Standards Manual, and the City of Tucson Floodplain Ordinance and Drainage Manuals;

      4.   Results in all existing buildings complying with the perimeter yard requirements of the property’s zone ; and,

      5.   Results in tracts or parcels of at least the minimum size required to build in accordance with the applicable zoning including any natural, environmental and floodplain requirements in accordance with the City of Tucson Floodplain Ordinance and Drainage Manuals.

   F.   Decision

      1.   The PDSD Director decides whether to approve or deny an application.

      2.   The PDSD will notify the applicant if the land split has been approved.

   G.   Recordation Required

   After approval, the deeds for the land split shall be recorded at the Pima County Recorder’s Office by the applicant/owner or his designated agent.

