#### 8.5.   EXPIRATION DATES

##### 8.5.1.   TENTATIVE PLAT

   A.   Tentative Plat Expiration

      1.   The tentative plat approval expires three years from the date of approval if a final plat has not been approved and recorded within this period.

      2.   When a tentative plat is approved with phases, all phases except phase one expire four years from the date of approval. A final plat for phase one must be approved and recorded within three years of tentative plat approval. A final plat for all other phases must be approved and recorded within four years of tentative plat approval.

      3.   If the subdivider fails to develop the platted lots or subdivision  infrastructure and intervening UDC changes make the lots unbuildable (i.e., nonconforming), then the subdivider is required to file an amended, conforming plat.

   B.   Tentative Plat Approval Extension

   A subdivider may request an extension of the tentative plat approval period. The extension may be granted based on the following:

      1.   For non-phased subdivisions, up to a one-year time extension may be granted provided there have been no changes in City regulations applicable to the proposed subdivision since the approval of the tentative plat; or,

      2.   For phased subdivisions, up to a one-year time extension for each phase of a tentative plat being platted and recorded in phases, provided there have been no changes in City regulations applicable to the proposed subdivision since the approval of the tentative plat phase under consideration.

##### 8.5.2.   FINAL PLAT

   A.   Final Plat Approval Period

   A final plat shall be approved and recorded within three years of the tentative plat approval date. A final plat is subject only to the ordinances in effect at the time of the tentative plat application except where an ordinance specifically states that it applies to pending applications.

